Sec. 24-49.7. - Permit issuance, confirmation of natural forest community maps, existing permits, approvals and consent agreements. 

(1)  The Department shall deny an application, or approve an application and issue a permit (subject to conditions, limitations or restrictions), for the activity proposed under the permit application, provided: 

(a)  The required application fee and permit fee is submitted to Miami-Dade County. 

(b)  A performance bond, if required, has been posted. As a condition of issuing a tree removal permit, the Department may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee compliance with all other conditions, limitations, and restrictions of the tree removal permit (the permitted activity), including, without limitation, planting of all required replacement trees. The bond shall be equivalent to one hundred (100) percent of the estimated cost of the permitted activity and may be in the form of a letter of credit, surety, cash, or certificate of deposit. All performance bonds shall remain in force for a minimum of either one (1) year after the actual completion date of the permitted activity (to ensure that any replanted trees which perish are replaced), or until viability of all replanted trees has been achieved, whichever occurs last. However, at the discretion of the Director or the Director's designee, performance bonds may be partially released in phases based upon partial completion of planting or other permit requirements. 

(c)  All required plans or covenants are submitted and are in compliance with the standards herein. 

(2)  All permits shall clearly specify all conditions, limitations, and restrictions required by the Department. By performing work under a permit, the permit applicant shall be deemed to have fully understood and agreed to comply with all of said conditions, limitations, or restrictions. 

(3)  All tree removal permit applications which remain incomplete for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days shall be denied. A new tree removal permit application shall be required for all work previously proposed under a permit application which has been denied. 

(4)  The natural forest community maps approved by the Board of County Commissioners on December 12, 1984, by Resolution No. 1764-84, all tree removal permits issued pursuant to Chapter 26B, Department approvals, and all consent agreements executed in order to resolve alleged violations of Chapter 26B of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, are hereby confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect, and all conditions, restrictions and limitations contained therein shall continue to apply, and compliance therewith shall be enforceable pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 21-108, § 3, 10-5-21)