Sec. 24-42.4. - Sanitary sewer discharge limitations and pretreatment standards 

(1)  Definitions. The following definitions shall be applicable only to the provisions of Section 24-42.4: 

(a)  Pollutant shall mean dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural wastes discharged into water. 

(b)  Categorical industrial user shall mean a facility subject to regulation by a national categorical pretreatment standard. 

(c)  Industrial user shall mean a nondomestic source of pollutants which discharges into a publicly owned treatment works. 

(d)  Interference shall mean a discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the publicly owned treatment works (POTW), its treatment process or operations; or its sludge process, use, or disposal; and therefore causes a violation of the POTW's discharge permits or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with federal, State or County regulations. 

(e)  New source shall mean any building, structure, facility or installation, the construction of which commenced after the promulgation of Pretreatment Standards under Section 307(c) of the Federal Clean Water Act and in accordance with the definition provided in 40 CFR 403.3, Federal Pretreatment Regulations, from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants. 

(f)  Pass-through shall mean a discharge that alone or in combination with other discharges exits the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) in quantities and concentrations to cause a violation of the POTW's discharge permits. 

(g)  Pretreatment shall mean the reduction in the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by a physical, chemical, or biological process; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard. 

(h)  Federal pretreatment standards shall mean any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Federal Clean Water Act, which applies to industrial users. This term includes the prohibited discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5, Federal Pretreatment Regulations. 

(i)  Significant industrial user (SIU) shall mean an industrial user which is: 

(i)  Any categorical industrial user, or 

(ii)  Any industrial user which discharges twenty-five thousand (25,000) gallons or more of process wastewater per day (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater), or contributes a process wastewater which makes up five (5) percent or more of the dry weather average hydraulic or organic capacity of the publicly owned treatment works, or 

(iii)  Is designated as such on the basis that it has a reasonable potential to adversely affect the publicly owned treatment works operation or to violate a pretreatment standard or requirement. 

(j)  Slug discharge shall mean any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, as defined in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(5). 

(2)  General Pretreatment Standards and Local Limits. 

(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drain, run or otherwise discharge into a sewer designed to carry storm water, or to cause, permit, allow or suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep, or otherwise discharged into such sewer: 

(i)  Domestic sewage, industrial waste, liquid waste or other waste. 

(ii)  Cooling water without the written approval of the Director or the Director's designee. The Director or the Director's designee shall issue a written approval if it is determined that the cooling water does not breach the values set forth in Section 24-42.1 of this Code. 

(b)  It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drain, run or otherwise discharge into a sanitary sewer, or to cause, permit, allow or suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep, or otherwise discharged into such sewer any storm water. 

(c)  The provisions of this section shall not be construed as precluding the installation of a combined system which has been approved by the Director or the Director's designee, and the appropriate State agency, and any such installation shall be subject to all applicable State and County regulations. 

(d)  It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drain, run or otherwise discharge into a sanitary sewer, or to cause, permit, allow or suffer to seep, to be thrown, run, drained, or otherwise discharged into such sewer any of the following substances: 

(i)  Any gasoline, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas; any pollutants which may create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW, including waste streams with a closed cup flash point of less than one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit or sixty (60) degrees Centigrade using the test methods in 40 CFR 261.21. 

(ii)  Any waters or wastes containing any pollutant, a toxic or poisonous substance in sufficient quantity or flow rate to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant or deteriorate quality of the sewage sludge to prevent sludge use or disposal. 

(iii)  Any pollutant in amounts which alone or in combination with other discharges will cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW. 

(iv)  Any substance that will pass through the sewage treatment plant and exceed State or Federal requirements for the receiving water. 

(v)  Any water or waste which contains substances which may solidify and become viscous at temperatures between thirty-three (33) degrees Fahrenheit and one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit (10—65 degrees Centigrade). 

(vi)  Any effluents in excess of the following local limits: 

Chemical, Physical or Biological Characteristic 

Standards 

Biochemical oxygen demand 

145 lbs/day at a concentration not to exceed 200 mg/l unless allowed by the POTW 

Total suspended solids 

145 lbs/day at a concentration level not to exceed 200 mg/l unless allowed by the POTW 

Oil and grease EPA Method 1664 



(Hexane Extractable Materials) 

100.0 mg/l 

Oil and Grease by EPA Method 1664 (Hexane Extractable Materials) strictly for facilities classified as FOG Generators subject to Section 24-42.6 

150.0 mg/l 

Total Recoverable Petroleum Hydrocarbons 



EPA Method 1664 (Silica Gel Treated Hexane Extractable Materials) 

50.0 mg/l 

Ammonia (un-ionized) 

100.0 mg/l 

Temperature 

150°F and shall not cause the plant influent to exceed 104°F (40°C) or inhibit biological activity 

pH 

5.5—11.5, and shall not cause damage to or create a hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the POTW 

Arsenic 

0.325 mg/l 

Cadmium 

0.187 mg/l 

Chromium (Total) 

7.6 mg/l 

Copper 

0.5 mg/l 

Lead 

0.7 mg/l 

Mercury 

0.01 mg/l 

Molybdenum 

0.4 mg/l 

Manganese 

1.9 mg/l 

Nickel 

0.39 mg/l 

Selenium 

0.65 mg/l 

Silver 

0.6 mg/l 

Thallium 

0.0005 mg/l 

Zinc 

6.8 mg/l 

Cyanides, total 

0.5 mg/l 

Poly chlorinated biphenyls 

0.008 mg/l 

Benzene 

0.2 mg/l 

Carbon Tetrachloride 

0.22 mg/l 

1,2-c-Dichloroethylene 

3.75 mg/l 

Tetrachloroethylene 

0.125 mg/l 

Trichloroethylene 

0.16 mg/l 

Vinyl Chloride 

0.08 mg/l 

 

Table Notes: 
1. FOG Generators subject to the provisions of Section 24-42.6 shall comply with all local limits set forth in Section 24-42.4, unless otherwise specifically exempted. 
2. Samples shall be taken at the point past which no further treatment is given by the facility to the waste or in the case of effluents subject to the State or Federal Pretreatment Regulations, at a sampling point as determined by the Director or the Director's designee in accordance with the State or Federal Pretreatment Regulations in accordance with Section 24-44.2. 

(vii)  In lieu of the local limits set forth in Section 24-42.4(2)(d)(vi) of the Code, the Director or the Director's designee may utilize equivalent standards as calculated pursuant to the Guide to Protect POTW Workers from Toxic & Radioactive Gases and Vapors (EPA # 812-B-92-001, June 1992), the Guidance Manual on the Development and Implementation of Local Discharge Limitations under the Pretreatment Program (EPA # 833-B-87-202, December 1987), and the Guidance Manual for Developing Best Management Practices (BMP)(EPA # 833-B-93-004, October 1993). 

(viii)  If compliance with the local limits set forth in Section 24-42.4(2)(d)(vi), is not sufficient to prevent violations of Section 24-42.4(2)(d)(i) through Section 24-42.4(2)(d)(v) above, the Director or the Director's designee shall determine the local limits, as calculated pursuant to the Guide to Protect POTW Workers from Toxic & Radioactive Gases and Vapors (EPA # 812-B-92-001, June 1992), the Guidance Manual on the Development and Implementation of Local Discharge Limitations under the Pretreatment Program (EPA # 833-B-87-202 December 1987), and the Guidance Manual for Developing Best Management Practices (BMP)(EPA # 833-B-93-004, October 1993), which shall be included in the facilities operating permit. 

It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any pollutant, including slug discharges, to sanitary sewers which pollutant may inhibit or disrupt the POTW's treatment process or operations; or which may inhibit or disrupt the POTW's sludge process, sludge use, or sludge disposal; or which causes a violation of the POTW's state or local discharge permits or prevents sewage sludge use or sewage sludge disposal in compliance with state or county regulations without first notifying the Director or the Director's designee in writing prior to the discharge. If prior notification is not possible because of circumstances beyond the control of the person responsible for such discharge then said discharge shall be reported to the Director or the Director's designee at the earliest practicable time after discovery of the discharge. 

(3)  Categorical Pretreatment Standards. It shall be unlawful for any industrial user to discharge any pollutant in violation of the Federal Pretreatment Standards set forth in 40 CFR 403.6. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 11-91, § 2, 11-15-11; Ord. No. 18-22, § 9, 2-21-18)