Sec. 24-48.15. - Comprehensive environmental impact statement. 

(1)  Procedure. 

(a)  The Director shall determine which of the comprehensive environmental impact statement assessment points described in Section 24-5 shall be addressed by a particular comprehensive environmental impact statement. The Director's decision shall be based upon a preapplication conference held between a permit applicant and the Department and based upon any other relevant information submitted by the applicant or available to the Department. 

(b)  The criteria to be used at a preapplication conference for determining the scope of a comprehensive environmental impact statement shall include the following: 

(i)  The relevance of the proposed work to each of the items described in Section 24-48.3(1)(a). Relevance shall be based upon both direct and indirect factors such as but not limited to location of the proposed work, proximity of the work to environmentally sensitive areas, past experience with similar work, and scope and magnitude of the proposed work. 

(ii)  The extent to which each of the comprehensive environmental impact statement assessment points may provide useful information and data relating to each of the items for which the proposed work is determined to be relevant. 

(2)  The format for a comprehensive environmental impact statement shall follow guidelines established by the Director. 

(3)  A comprehensive environmental impact statement shall not be required for any of the following work: 

(a)  Construction of one (1) single-family residence consistent with existing zoning regulations. 

(b)  Access driveway to a single-family residence within a lot zoned for one (1) single-family residence. 

(c)  Agriculture on five (5) acres of land or less, ancillary to an existing single-family residence, or ancillary to a single-family residence under construction, as allowed under Miami-Dade County zoning regulations. 

(d)  Rockplowing or other agricultural development in the East Everglades area of critical environmental concern when said agriculture is allowable under Chapter 33B of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, and is consistent with the best management practices under Chapter 33B of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. 

(e)  Rockmining within the transitional Northeast Everglades when said rockmining is consistent with Miami-Dade County lake criteria. 

(f)  Elevated boardwalks. 

(g)  Class I short form permit applications. 

(4)  The Director may, in the Director's discretion, exempt an applicant from the requirement of preparing a new comprehensive environmental impact statement for a permit application for proposed work which work has been previously the subject of a deactivated application by the same applicant. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 12-58, § 5, 7-3-12)