Sec. 24-49.9. - Prohibited plant species and controlled plant species. 

(1)  Controlled plant species listed in the Miami-Dade County Landscape Manual on the effective date of this ordinance shall not be planted within 500 feet of native plant communities as defined pursuant to Section 18-3, Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida. Additionally, the following exotic pest plant and nuisance species, with scientific nomenclature as set forth in Wunderlin, Richard P. and Hansen, Bruce F., Guide to the Vascular Plants of Florida, 2nd Ed. University of Florida Press, Gainesville, FL. (2003), a copy of which shall be maintained by the Director or Director's designee and available for review by the public, may not be sold, propagated or planted anywhere in Miami-Dade County. If present on a development or redevelopment site, they shall be removed prior to development or redevelopment, and their sale, propagation, planting, importation or transportation shall be prohibited. Pursuant to this subsection and in accordance with Chapter 19 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, developed sites shall be maintained to prevent the growth or accumulation of prohibited species including grass, weeds and non-native undergrowth. 

Abrus precatorius (Rosary pea) 

Acacia auriculiformis (Earleaf acacia) 

Adenanthera pavonina (Red beadtree, red sandalwood) 

Albizia lebbeck (Woman's tongue, lebbeck tree, siris tree) 

Antigonon leptopus (Coral vine, queen's jewels) 

Ardisia crenata (Scratchthroat, coral ardisia) 

Ardisia elliptica (Shoebutton, shoebutton ardisia) 

Bischofia javanica (Javanese bishopwood, bishopwood, bischofia, toog) 

Casuarina spp. (Australian pine, sheoak, beefwood) 

Cestrum diurnum (Dayflowering jessamine, day blooming jasmine, day jessamine) 

Cinnamomum camphora (Camphortree, camphor tree) 

Colubrina asiatica (Asian nakedwood, leatherleaf, latherleaf) 

Cupaniopsis anacardioides (Carrotwood) 

Dalbergia sissoo (Indian rosewood, sissoo) 

Dioscorea alata (White yam, winged yam) 

Dioscorea bulbifera (Air potato, bitter yam, potato vine) 

Eichhornia crassipes (Common water-hyacinth, water-hyacinth) 

Ficus altissima (Council tree, lofty fig, banyan tree, false banyan) 

Ficus benghalensis (Banyan tree, banyan fig, Indian banyan, East Indian fig tree, Bengal fig) 

Ficus microcarpa (Indian laurel, laurel fig, Malay banyan, Chinese banyan, glossy leaf banyan)* 

Flacourtia indica (Governor's plum, Madagascar plum, batoko plum, ramonchi) 

Hydrilla verticillata (Water thyme, hydrilla) 

Hygrophila polysperma (Indian swampweed, green hygro) 

Hymenachne amplexicaulis (Trompetilla, West Indian marsh grass) 

Imperata cylindrica (Cogongrass) 

Ipomoea aquatica (Water-spinach) 

Jasminum dichotomum (Gold Coast jasmine) 

Jasminum fluminense (Brazilian jasmine, jazmin de trapo) 

Leucaena leucocephala (White leadtree, lead tree, jumbie bean, tan-tan) 

Ludwigia peruviana (Peruvian primrosewillow) 

Lygodium spp. except L. palmatum (Climbing fern, e.g. Old World climbing fern, Japanese climbing fern) 

Macfadyena unguis-cati (Catclaw vine) 

Melaleuca quinquenervia (Punk tree, melaleuca, cajeput, paperbark tree, tea tree, swamp tea tree) 

Melia azedarach (Chinaberrytree, Chinaberry) 

Merremia tuberosa (yellow morning-glory, woodrose, Hawaiian woodrose) 

Mikania micrantha (Mile-a-minute, bittervine) 

Mimosa pigra (Black mimosa, Catclaw mimosa) 

Neyraudia reynaudiana (Burmareed, silkreed) 

Paederia spp. (Sewervine, skunkvine, onion vine) 

Panicum repens (Torpedograss) 

Pennisetum purpureum (Elephantgrass, Napiergrass) 

Pistia stratiotes (Water lettuce) 

Pueraria montana var. lobata (Kudzu) 

Rhodomyrtus tomentosa (Rose myrtle, Downy rose-myrtle) 

Rhynchelytrum repens (Rose natalgrass, Natal grass) 

Ricinus communis (Castorbean, castor oil plant, palma christi, wonder tree) 

Sapium sebiferum (Popcorntree, Chinese tallowtree) 

Scaevola taccada (Beach naupaka, scaevola, half-flower) 

Schefflera actinophylla (Australian umbrella tree, octopus tree, Queensland umbrella tree) 

Schinus terebinthifolius (Brazilian pepper, Christmas berry tree, Florida holly) 

Senna pendula var. glabrata (Valamuerto, Climbing cassia, Christmas cassia, Christmas senna) 

Solanum tampicense (Aquatic soda apple, wetland nightshade) 

Solanum viarum (Tropical soda apple) 

Talipariti tiliaceum (Mahoe, sea hibiscus, yellow mahoe) 

Tectaria incisa (Incised halberd fern) 

Thespesia populnea (Portia tree, seaside mahoe, cork tree, false rosewood) 

Tribulus cistoides (Puncture vine, burrnut, Jamaican feverplant, billy-goat weed, large yellow caltrop) 

Urochloa mutica (Paragrass) 

* Ficus microcarva may be propagated for export outside of the State of Florida. 

(2)  Definitions for Section 24-49.9(1), Sections 24-49.9(3)(a), 3(b), and 3(c): 

(a)  Importation shall mean the conveyance by any means of plants into Miami-Dade County. 

(b)  Planting shall mean the placing on or setting into the ground of live plant material. 

(c)  Propagation shall mean the physical act of causing plants to multiply by any process of reproduction from plant stock. 

(d)  Sale shall mean the act of transferring or conveying plants to a purchaser for consideration. 

(e)  Transportation shall mean the act of carrying or conveying plants from one (1) place to another for the purpose of sale, planting, importation or propagation. 

(3)  Variances. 

(a)  A variance by the Director from the requirements or prohibitions of this section may be requested, subject to the conditions justifying variance approval outlined below in Section 24-49.9(3)(b). Said variance request shall be made in writing to the Director and shall include the following information: 

(i)  Name and address of the person or persons requesting the variance. 

(ii)  Location of the property for which the variance is requested. 

(iii)  A sketch or drawing indicating the location within the subject property where the planting or field propagation of the otherwise prohibited plant species will occur. (Container propagation shall be exempt from said sketch or drawing requirements.) 

(iv)  The reason or reasons for requesting the variance. 

(b)  The Director may, in the Director's discretion, issue a variance from the provisions of this subsection based upon the following factors: 

(i)  Proximity of the subject planting or propagation to any environmentally sensitive areas (e.g., wetlands, hammocks, pinelands, dunes). 

(ii)  Lack of appropriate alternative plant species to fulfill the same purpose or purposes for planting. 

(iii)  The designation of a tree as a Historic Tree by the local Historic Preservation Board. 

(iv)  Compensatory actions proposed to offset impacts for any adverse environmental impact or cumulative adverse environmental impact which may result from granting the variance. 

(c)  The Director shall issue or deny a variance request within thirty (30) days of receipt of the variance request, provided the required information described in Section 24-49.9(3)(a)(i) through (iv) above has been submitted. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 13-24, § 3, 3-5-13)