Sec. 24-43.2. - Regulation of on-site domestic well systems and other water supply wells. 

(1)  Regulation of on-site domestic well systems generally. 

(a)  Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, no County or municipal officer, agent, employee, or board shall approve, grant or issue any building permit, certificate of use or occupancy (except for changes in ownership), municipal occupational license (except for changes in ownership), platting action (final plat, waiver of plat or equivalent municipal platting action), development agreement subject to the Florida Local Government Development Agreement Act, zoning action (district boundary change, unusual use, special exception, use variance, or equivalent municipal zoning action), or other development order or development permit for any land use served or to be served by an on-site domestic well system without obtaining the Director's prior written approval. 

Furthermore, notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, no person shall construct, utilize, operate, occupy, or cause, allow, let, permit, or suffer to be constructed, utilized, operated, or occupied, any land use served or to be served by a domestic well system without obtaining the Director's prior written approval. 

Such written approval shall only be issued if the Director determines all of the following are met: 

(i)  the existing or requested land use for the property complies with Section 24-43.1; and 

(ii)  the installation of a public water main to serve the property from the nearest available point of connection to an available public water main is not within feasible distance for public water mains; and 

(iii)  the groundwater at the site does not require treatment to meet the primary drinking water quality standards specified in Chapter 62-550, Florida Administrative Code, as same may be amended from time to time; and 

(iv)  the groundwater at the site does not contain more than 250 milligrams per liter (mg/l) of chlorides at a depth of 30 feet from ground elevation; and 

(v)  for establishments engaged in the preparation, cooking, or table service of food or drink when ancillary to a farm to the extent permitted in Section 33-279, the following additional requirements: 

1.  the on-site domestic well water treatment system or treatment train is designed for land uses within the cone of influence of the well based on the maximum day flow rate, but not less than ⅛-mile; 

2.  the on-site domestic well system includes mechanical, electrical, and component reliability to assure uninterrupted supply and treatment; 

3.  the Director has given written approval for monitoring plans for the following, including sampling frequency for primary and secondary drinking water standards: 

a.  where groundwater contamination has been identified within 1/8-mile, a sentinel groundwater monitoring plan, which includes monitoring wells and sampling contaminants identified; and 

b.  a raw (untreated) and treated water monitoring plan; and 

4.  the Director has given written approval for a water treatment system operation and maintenance plan, which includes a Class D or higher Operator performing site visits at a rate of 2 visits per week for a total of 1 hour per week; and 

5.  the system includes a disinfection system that provides 4-log removal or inactivation of pathogens with an inactivation ratio equal to or greater than one based on peak hourly flow rate. 

6.  Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, a mobile food service operation that complies with Section 33-279 is not subject to this section. 

(b)  No construction may be begun on any project within Miami-Dade County involving the construction of a well capable of withdrawing water without obtaining approval from the Director. No well that withdraws water in excess of five thousand (5,000) gallons per day from groundwater, surface water or any other water or waters of Miami-Dade County may be maintained or operated without a permit. All permit applications shall be filed with the Director on forms provided by the Director and shall include but shall not be limited to the following information: 

(i)  The name and address of the applicant (if the applicant is a corporation include the address of the principal business office); 

(ii)  The date the application is filed; 

(iii)  The source of water supply (if the water is from a lake, spring, river, stream or other source of surface water the name generally given to the source by the people in the vicinity. If the water is from a groundwater source this fact shall be stated on the application); 

(iv)  The quantity of water applied for; 

(v)  The use to be made of the water and any limitation thereon (the description shall include the nature of the proposed use, the method of withdrawal or division of the water and facts, figures and other information on which the amount of water requested was based); 

(vi)  The place where the water is to be used; 

(vii)  The location of the well and for surface waters, the point of diversion; 

(viii)  The total related land area owned by the applicant; 

(ix)  The necessity for the well; 

(x)  Any known persons who may be directly affected by the granting of the application; 

(xi)  The signature of the applicant or his agent (if the signer is signing in a representative capacity he shall attach proof of his authority—in the case of a corporation, governmental body or public utility the applicant shall attach a certified copy of the authority under which the application is made); 

(xii)  Other information as may be requested by the Department. 

(2)  Conditions for a well permit. 

(a)  In order to obtain a well permit an applicant must show that the intended use: 

(i)  Is a reasonable, beneficial use, and 

(ii)  Will not interfere with any legal use of water existing at the time of the application, including both exempted domestic uses and uses exercised under the authority of a valid permit, and 

(iii)  Is consistent with the public interest. 

(b)  In determining whether a use is consistent with the public interest, the Director may consider the following factors: 

(i)  The maximum economic development of the water resources consistent with present and future uses; 

(ii)  The control of such waters for such purposes as environmental protection, drainage, flood control and water storage; 

(iii)  The quantity of water available for application to a reasonable-beneficial use; 

(iv)  Preservation of wasteful, uneconomic, impractical or unreasonable uses of water resources; 

(v)  The preservation and enhancement of water quality of the County and the provisions of the water quality standards and classifications established pursuant to Chapter 24 of the Code of Miami-Dade County; 

(vi)  The County's water resources policy as expressed in Chapter 24 of the Code; 

(vii)  The availability and proximity of public water supply; and 

(viii)  The satisfaction of the requirements of Section 24-43.3 of the Code. 

(c)  The Director may reserve water from use by permit applicants in such locations and quantities and for such seasons of the year as may reasonably be necessary to protect the public health, safety or fish and wildlife. Such reservations shall be subject to periodic review and revision in light of changed conditions except that all legal uses of water existing at the time of the reservation shall not be subject to this regulation so long as such uses are not contrary to the public interest. Any applicant aggrieved by an action of the Director or the Director's designee may appeal to the Environmental Quality Control Board under the procedures and standards set forth in Section 24-11 of the Code. 

(3)  Permits for existing uses. All uses of water in existence before the effective date of this section, unless otherwise exempted from regulation by law, may be continued after the adoption of this permit system. A permit for any existing use shall be issued upon proper application. Failure to apply for a permit for any existing use for one (1) year after the effective date of this ordinance shall constitute an abandonment of the right granted by this section. 

(4)  Competing applications. 

(a)  If two (2) or more applications, otherwise in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, are pending for a quantity of water that is inadequate for both (or all) or which for any other reason are in conflict, the Director shall have the right to modify or approve the application or applications to best serve the public interest. In considering the relative benefit to be derived by the public from such proposed uses of water the Director may within the same type of use and source consider the following: 

(i)  Public users should be preferred over private users; 

(ii)  Economically more productive uses should be preferred over less productive uses; 

(iii)  The purposes expressly declared to be in the public interest in Chapter 24 of the Code should be given primary consideration. 

(b)  In the event two (2) or more competing applications which have equally qualified under Section 24-43.2(4)(a) above cannot be reconciled by modification by the Director, the Director shall give preference to: 

(i)  Renewal application, or 

(ii)  If none or all are renewal applications, to the first properly filed application. 

(5)  Modification, renewal and transfer of permits. A permittee may apply to the Director for approval of any modification of a permit use. The Director may approve any modification of use which involves a decrease in the quantity of water required. Modification of any other term or terms of a permit may be granted at the discretion of the Director provided that such modification does not effect substantially the public interest. 

(6)  Revocation of permits. 

(a)  Pursuant to a hearing, the Environmental Quality Control Board may upon application by the Director: 

(i)  Revoke any permit for complete nonuse of water supply allowed by the permit for a period of one (1) year or more; 

(ii)  Permanently revoke in whole or in part any permit for any material false statement in the application to continue, to initiate, or to modify a use, or for any material false statement in any report or statement of fact required by the user pursuant to the provisions of this section; 

(iii)  Permanently or temporarily revoke in whole or in part any permit for the willful violation of conditions of the permit; 

(iv)  Revoke in whole or in part for a period not to exceed one (1) year any permit for the violation of any provision of Chapter 24 or regulation adopted thereunder; 

(v)  Revoke, in whole or in part, any permit where adequate public water becomes available. 

(b)  The Director may cancel any permit with the written consent of the permittee. 

(7)  Emergency drought conditions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the exercise of emergency powers to control the use, withdrawal or diversion of water during periods of emergency water shortage. 

(8)  Violation of section. It shall be unlawful for any person without a permit to construct, operate or maintain a well as required by this section. 

(9)  Effect of denial. When an application for a permit has been denied by the Director and that denial, pursuant to a timely appeal, has not been overruled by the Environmental Quality Control Board a new application for a permit shall not be resubmitted within one (1) year of such final denial unless the applicant can demonstrate a substantial change in conditions or unless the permit applied for is substantially modified and is in compliance with the Director's reason for denial. 

(10)  When an approved public water main has been made available and operative in any portion of the public right-of-way or easement abutting the property, the use of any on site domestic well system shall cease and connection shall be made to a public water main within ninety (90) days from the date that the Director or the Director's designee determines that the approved public water main is made available and operative. Thereafter, the use of the on-site well for domestic use shall be abandoned and the source of potable water for the residence or building shall be from the approved public water main. 

Available, when used in Section 24-43.2(10) shall mean the following: 

(a)  Single Family Residence and Duplex: A public water main shall be considered available if it is located within any portion of any public right-of-way or easement abutting the property, but not on the opposite side of a roadway divided by a raised median or on the opposite side of a roadway which has four (4) lanes or more. 

(b)  For all other uses: A public water main shall be considered available if it is located within any portion of any public right-of-way or easement abutting the property. 

(11)  Definitions. 

Domestic use shall mean any use of water for individual personal needs or for household purposes such as drinking, bathing, eating, cooking or sanitation. 

Emergency shall mean that situation where the public health, safety or welfare or the health of animals, fish or aquatic life or of a public water supply or recreational, commercial, industrial, agricultural or other reasonable use of water is immediately in danger or threatened by an insufficient supply, restricted source, deleterious quality or other conditions of the water within the County. 

Groundwater shall mean water beneath the surface of the ground whether or not flowing through known and definite channels. 

Person shall mean any and all persons including but not limited to any individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, business trust, corporation, company, United States of America, the State of Florida and all the municipalities and public agencies thereof located within Miami-Dade County. 

Reasonable-beneficial use shall mean the use of water in such quantity as is necessary for economic and efficient utilization for a purpose and in a manner which is both reasonable and consistent with the public interest. 

Surface water shall mean water upon the surface of the earth whether contained in bounds created naturally or artificially or diffused. Water from a natural spring or well shall be classified as surface water when it exits from the spring or well onto the earth's surface. 

Water or waters of the County shall mean any and all waters on or beneath the surface of the ground including natural or artificial water courses, lakes, ponds or diffused surface water and water percolating, standing or flowing beneath the surface of the ground as well as all coastal waters in the geographic boundaries of Miami-Dade County, Florida. 

Water shortage shall mean that situation within all or part of Miami-Dade County, Florida wherein insufficient water is available to meet the requirements of the permit system or where the conditions are such as to require temporary reduction in the total use within the area to protect water resources from serious harm. 

Well shall mean any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is for the location, acquisition, development or artificial recharge of groundwater or removal of water from beneath the ground. The term well does not include sandpoint wells or any wells for the purpose of obtaining or prospecting for oil, natural gas, minerals or products of mining or quarrying or the inserting of media to dispose of oil brinds or to repressure an oil or natural gas-bearing formation or for storing petroleum, natural gas or other products. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 14-48, § 2, 5-6-14; Ord. No. 22-137, § 3, 10-18-22; Ord. No. 24-27, § 6, 3-19-24)