Sec. 24-21. - Operating records. 

(1)  The owner and operator of any project subject to subsections 24-15(2)-(5) or (8), other than stormwater management systems that are subject to, or expressly exempted in, section 24-21.1, shall each be responsible for maintaining and keeping such records as may be required by the Director to indicate the operating efficiency of such facility, and to show whether or not such facility is causing or conveying pollution or contamination of air, water, soil, or property, as defined in this chapter, or causing or conveying flooding or runoff in violation of this chapter. 

(a)  This provision shall not be construed to require the owner and operator to each maintain a set of duplicate records, but if one party does not produce records as required, both parties shall be responsible for any such violation. 

(b)  Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, non-structural impervious surface improvements shall not be subject to this section unless operating records are required as a condition of a class permit. 

(2)  Such records shall include: a description of the operation; control tests; material usage; safety data sheets; equipment operation logs and records; maintenance records; repair receipts; disposal and manifest receipts; and any additional records that are required to be maintained by an approval or permit granted pursuant to this chapter. 

(3)  The owner and operator shall furnish all such information and data concerning the operation of the project as the Director may require from time to time. 

(4)  Records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years, unless a longer retention period is required pursuant to conditions of an operating permit or local, state, or federal regulations. 

(5)  In addition to the above, any industrial user, as defined in section 24-42.4, shall comply with the reporting and record keeping requirements set forth in 40 CFR 403.12, Federal Pretreatment Regulations, as may be amended. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 24-92, § 1, 9-4-24)