Sec. 24-48.3. - Factors for evaluation of permit applications; incomplete permit applications. 

(1)  The Department shall base its recommendation for approval, denial or approval subject to conditions, limitations, or restrictions, and the Board of County Commissioners shall make its decision for approval, denial, or approval subject to conditions, limitations or restrictions, for any of the permits provided for under this article, upon the following evaluation factors, when applicable: 

(a)  The potential adverse environmental impact and cumulative adverse environmental impact of the proposed work, including but not limited to the effect upon hydrology, water quality, water supply, wellfields, aquifer recharge, aesthetics, navigation, public health, historic values, air quality, marine and wildlife habitats, archeological values, wetland soils suitable for habitat, floral and faunal values, rare, threatened and endangered species, natural flood damage protection, wetland values, land use classification, recreation, and any other environmental values, affecting the public interest. 

(b)  Conformance with standard construction procedures and practices and design and performance standards, including but not limited to, all applicable portions of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Manual, Chapter 33B of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, and Miami-Dade County Ordinance No. 81-19 [codified as Sections 33D-1 through 33D-4], as all of same may be amended from time to time. 

(c)  The information provided by the comprehensive environmental impact statement, if required. 

(d)  Conformance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. Conformance with the Rules of the South Florida Water Management District set forth in Chapter 40E-40, Florida Administrative Code (F.A.C.), as same may be amended from time to time, pertaining to general surface water management permits within Miami-Dade County, and with the provisions contained in the "Basis of Review for Surface Water Management Permit Applications Within the South Florida Water Management District," dated September 11, 2008, as same may be amended from time to time. 

(e)  Conformance with the Miami-Dade County Comprehensive Development Master Plan, Chapter 33B of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, Miami-Dade County Ordinance No. 81-19 [codified as Sections 33D-1 through 33D-4], and the Miami-Dade County Manatee Protection Plan (a copy of which shall be made permanently available at the Department for reference by the public), as all of same may be amended from time to time. 

(f)  Consistency with criteria for lake excavations in Miami-Dade County established by the Board of County Commissioners. 

(g)  The recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners as to approval or denial from the municipality within which the proposed work is located. 

(h)  The relationship of the proposed work to a coastal resources management line established pursuant to the provisions of Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(10)(b). 

(i)  Preservation and protection of all existing wetland communities seaward of said management line. 

(ii)  Protection of all existing wetland biological and hydrological functions landward of said management line. 

(i)  Maximum protection of a wetland's hydrological and biological functions through adherence to the following fill limitations: 

(i)  Placement of the minimum fill necessary on a site to provide for the land usage alternative which results in the least adverse environmental impact and the least cumulative adverse environmental impact. 

(ii)  Placement of temporary fill pads and fill roads for the purpose of conducting rockmining. 

(j)  For Class I permit applications proposing to exceed the boundaries described in Section D-5(03)(2)(a) of the Miami-Dade County Public Works Manual, the following additional factors shall be considered: 

(i)  Whether the proposed exceedance is the minimum necessary, as determined by the Director or the Director's designee, to avoid seagrass or other valuable environmental resources, 

(ii)  Whether the proposed exceedance is the minimum necessary, as determined by the Director or the Director's designee, to achieve adequate water depth for mooring of a vessel, 

(iii)  Whether the applicant has provided to the Department notarized letter(s) of consent from adjoining riparian property owners in a form prescribed by the Director or the Director's designee, and 

(iv)  Whether the Department has received any letter of objection from adjoining riparian property owners. 

(2)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors found in Section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above, dredging or filling work proposed in class I permit applications shall comply with at least one (1) of the following criteria: 

(a)  Minimum dredging and spoiling for public navigation or public necessity. 

(b)  An alteration of physical conditions as may be necessary to enhance the quality or utility of adjacent waters. 

(c)  Minimum dredging and filling for the creation and maintenance of marinas, piers, docks and attendant navigational channels. 

(d)  Minimum dredging and filling as is necessary for the elimination of conditions hazardous to the public health or for the elimination of stagnant waters. 

(e)  Minimum dredging and filling as is necessary to enhance the biological, chemical or physical characteristics of adjacent waters. 

(f)  A physical modification necessary to protect public or private property. 

(3)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors found in Section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above, boat slips created by the construction or placement of fixed or floating docks, piers, piles and other structures requiring a permit under this article and located in tidal waters within the geographical boundaries of Miami-Dade County, Florida shall have a minimum water depth of four feet N.O.A.A. mean low water datum. It shall be unlawful to moor or store vessels at fixed and floating docks, piers, piles and any structure requiring a permit under this article in tidal waters within the geographical boundaries of Miami-Dade County in areas with less than four feet of depth N.O.A.A. mean low water datum except for those existing structures which were constructed or placed in accordance with all of the requirements of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida prior to October 11, 1985. The foregoing requirements in this subsection (3) shall not apply to: 

(a)  Fixed or floating docks or piers in tidal waters which are utilized exclusively for fishing, viewing Biscayne Bay, or swimming and which do not have one or more slips or mooring or fender piles present or proposed at or adjacent to the dock or pier, or 

(b)  Fixed or floating docks or piers in tidal waters which are utilized exclusively for launching canoes or kayaks, or 

(c)  Construction or placement of davits in tidal waters, provided that the davits are attached to seawalls or bulkheads, or 

(d)  Fixed or floating docks, piers or boat slips in tidal waters created by work requiring a permit under this Article if located in artificially created canals, provided the canal is bulkheaded and bordered by uplands on both sides of the canal, or 

(e)  Floating vessel platforms and floating boat lifts in tidal waters which qualify for the exemption contained within Section 403.813(2)(s), Florida Statutes. 

(f)  Installation of boat lifts, davits and mooring piles, in slips at existing permitted docks and piers. 

(g)  Repair or reconstruction of existing legal docks provided there is a minimum water depth of three feet N.O.A.A. mean low water datum. 

Additionally, no permit shall be issued for a proposed slip or for any other proposed work requiring a permit under this Article which is to be used for the mooring or securing of a vessel, unless adequate water depth exists, including when the vessel is fully loaded. 

(4)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors found in Section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above, any filling in the wetlands of Miami-Dade County shall comply with the following criteria: All fill shall consist only of clean fill. 

(5)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors set forth in Section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above and the fill quality requirements set forth in Section 24-48.3(4) above, the following requirements shall apply to any work within the North Trail Basin or within the Bird Drive Everglades Wetland Basin: 

(a)  Except as provided in (e) below, the work shall be consistent with the North Trail Basin Plan (if it is located within the North Trail Basin), or shall be consistent with the Bird Drive Everglades Wetland Basin Plan (if it is located within the Bird Drive Everglades Basin). These plans are included in Sections 24-48.19 and 24-48.20 respectively. 

(b)  All tree islands shall be preserved. 

(c)  All proposed work which involves filling (a) stormwater management area(s) shall be constructed as specified in the North Trail Basin Fill Encroachment and Water Management Criteria for properties located within the North Trail Basin, or as specified in the Bird Drive Everglades Basin Fill Encroachment and Water Management Criteria, for properties located within the Bird Drive Everglades Wetland Basin. 

(d)  Stormwater management areas which are less than five (5) acres in size and are located within the Urban Development Boundary as it appears on the Comprehensive Development Master Plan's Land Use Map (as same is amended from time to time) shall not be left at natural grade (unfilled). 

(e)  The side slopes of the stormwater management area(s) shall be no steeper than four (4) horizontal to one (1) vertical (4:1). 

(6)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors set forth in Section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above and the fill quality requirement set forth in Section 24-48.3(4) above, for projects located within Basin B, the total volume of fill material placed on a property between existing land elevation and elevation 7.58 NGVD shall not exceed the following formula: Area of site in square feet × 1.8. As an alternative to the foregoing formula other engineering approaches consistent with the requirements of full on-site retention without exceeding established stages for the 100-year, three-day storm shall be approved by the Director of the Department of Environmental Resources Management or the Director's designee. 

(a)  The side slope of stormwater management area(s) shall be no steeper than four (4) horizontal to one (1) vertical (4:1). 

(7)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors contained within section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above, the following requirements shall apply to all work requiring a Class II Permit: 

(a)  Wet retention shall not be utilized without prior pretreatment by means of dry detention or retention of the first inch of runoff from the proposed project's drainage area. 

(b)  An on-site retention system of applicable design shall be utilized as the first priority for the disposal of stormwater runoff at any location in Miami-Dade County with the exception of projects located in the North Trail Basin, Bird Drive Basin, East Turnpike Basin, Western C-9 Basin or any other area subject to Miami-Dade County's cut and fill criteria. 

The on-site retention systems required by this section shall include the following: 

(i)  Surface infiltration through grassed swales, or 

(ii)  Underground disposal through exfiltration, or 

(iii)  Disposal by drainage wells, or 

(iv)  Disposal through dry retention ponds, or 

(v)  Surface storage in on-site wetlands following pretreatment, or 

(vi)  Any combination of any of the foregoing as approved by the Director or the Director's designee. 

(c)  For a stormwater management system that proposes an additional volume of direct discharges through a new overflow or outfall into the primary or secondary canal system or surface waters depicted on the Water Control Plan, on-site retention of the 25-year, 3-day storm event with zero off-site discharge shall be provided, unless a higher retention standard is required by other applicable local, County, South Florida Water Management District, or State regulation. 

(i)  The approval of such system is a subject to the capacity of the canal system or surface waters, as applicable, to receive additional inflows. 

(ii)  Such a system requires a Class II permit. 

(d)  Existing positive drainage systems which for any reason require modification or relocation shall be constructed in accordance with the standards set forth in Section 24-48.3(7)(a) and (b) above, except for those portions of the existing project which will remain unaltered under the new plan. 

(8)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors contained within Section 24-48.3(1)(a) through (i) above, the following requirements shall apply to all work requiring a class VI permit: 

(a)  Drainage systems shall be designed and built to comply with the following standards: 

(i)  All requirements set forth in Section 24-48.3(7). 

(ii)  All inlet structures located within grassed areas or landscaping strips may receive a 0.2 inch retention credit. Furthermore, at least one (1) inch of pretreatment by means of dry detention or retention shall be provided as part of the required retention or detention prior to authorization of an overflow outfall. 

(iii)  Existing positive drainage systems which for any reason require modification or relocation shall be installed in a manner to comply with the standards set forth in Section 24-48.3(8)(a)(i) and (ii) above, except for those portions of the existing project which will remain unaltered under the new plan. 

(9)  In addition to the applicable evaluation factors contained in subsection (1)(a) through (i) above, the use or installation of unencapsulated polystyrene shall be prohibited in connection with any work requiring a class I permit. 

(10)  An incomplete permit application shall become deactivated thirty-six (36) months from the date the permit application was filed. Permit applications are deemed filed with the Department on the date the application is stamped received by the Department. 

(a)  A new application shall be required for obtaining a permit for all work previously proposed under a permit application which has been deactivated. 

(b)  The Department shall not process any permit application which has been deactivated. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 12-58, § 5, 7-3-12; Ord. No. 18-10, § 3, 2-6-18; Ord. No. 24-92, § 5, 9-4-24)