Sec. 24-51.4. - Fees. 

(1)  The Miami-Dade County Stormwater Utility is hereby authorized and directed to establish, assess, and collect stormwater utility fees upon all residential developed property and all nonresidential developed property in Miami-Dade County, Florida, sufficient to plan, construct, operate, and maintain stormwater management systems set forth in the local program required pursuant to Section 403.0891(3), Florida Statutes. Such fees shall be in an amount set forth in administrative orders of the County Manager after approval by the Board of County Commissioners. 

(2)  Each residential developed property shall be assessed a stormwater utility fee calculated by multiplying the rate for one (1) ERU by the number of the dwelling units on the parcel. 

(3)  Each nonresidential developed property shall be assessed a stormwater utility fee calculated by multiplying the rate for one (1) ERU by a factor derived by dividing the actual impervious area of the particular nonresidential developed property by the statistically estimated average horizontal impervious area of residential developed property per dwelling unit, to wit, the square footage base equivalent established for one (1) ERU. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each nonresidential developed property classified by the Miami-Dade County Property Appraiser as land use type 71 shall be assessed a stormwater utility fee which is fifty (50) percent of the fee for nonresidential developed property calculated as described in the preceding sentence. 

(4)  The fees payable hereunder shall be deposited in a separate County fund and shall be used exclusively by the Miami-Dade County Stormwater Utility to pay for the costs of planning, constructing, operating and maintaining stormwater management systems set forth in the local program required pursuant to Section 403.0891(3), Florida Statutes. No part of said fund shall be used for purposes other than the aforesaid. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)