Sec. 24-36. - Pollution Prevention Trust Fund. 

(1)  The Pollution Prevention Trust Fund is created for use in developing, promoting and conducting environmental workshops, expositions, symposia, conferences and other forms of public information for the purpose of educating industry, government and the public about pollution prevention. The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to establish the Pollution Prevention Trust Fund and to receive and disburse monies in accordance with the provisions of this section. 

(2)  The Pollution Prevention Trust Fund shall receive monies from the following sources: 

(a)  All revenues or fees collected by the Department from exhibitors, attendees, and sponsors participating in a pollution prevention event. 

(b)  All monies accepted by Miami-Dade County in the form of federal, state, or other governmental grants, allocations, or appropriations, as well as foundation or private grants and donations, for the conducting of pollution prevention environmental education workshops, expositions, symposia, conferences and other forms of public information. 

(c)  Such additional allocations as may be made by the Board of County Commissioners from time to time for the purposes set forth herein. 

(d)  All interest generated from the sources identified in Section 24-36(2)(a), (b) and (c) hereinabove, except where monies received have been otherwise designated or restricted. 

(3)  The Pollution Prevention Trust Fund shall be maintained in trust by the Finance Director for the Board of County Commissioners solely for the purposes set forth herein, in a separate and segregated fund of the County which shall not be commingled with other County funds until disbursed for an authorized purpose pursuant to Section 24-36(4). 

(4)  The procurement of goods and services by the Department which are funded from the Pollution Prevention Trust Fund, shall be exempt from the formal bidding procedures and the provisions of Miami-Dade County Administrative Orders 3-2 and 3-4. Disbursements therefor shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per vendor, per event and shall only be made for the following purposes: 

(a)  Development, promotion and conducting of aforementioned Pollution Prevention educational activities as approved by the Director or the Director's designee. 

(b)  Costs associated with said educational activities including, but not limited to, facility rental, equipment rental, professional and trade labor services, speakers' services, travel expenses, printing and mailing expenses, insurance, administrative costs, and any other goods or services necessary. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)