Sec. 24-28. - Nuisances injurious to health (sanitary nuisances). 

(1)  The following conditions existing, permitted, maintained, kept or caused by any individual, municipal organization or corporation, governmental or private, shall constitute a sanitary nuisance: 

(a)  Untreated or improperly treated or disposed of human waste, garbage, offal, dead animals or dangerous waste materials. 

(b)  Improperly built or maintained, overflowing, breached, or leaking OSTDS, water closets, or privies. 

(c)  Discharging, or allowing the discharge of, OSTDS pump-out wastes into streams, surface waters, underground aquifers, ditches, drainage structures, or on the ground surface. 

(d)  Supplying potable water without providing disinfection by a public water supply system. 

(e)  Air pollution which is harmful to human beings, animal life, or plant life. 

(f)  Water pollution which is harmful to human beings, animal life, or plant life. 

(g)  Ground pollution which is harmful to human beings, animal life, or plant life. 

(h)  Objectionable odors which are harmful to human beings or animal life. 

(2)  The Director or the Director's designee is authorized to investigate any condition or alleged nuisance in any place within the geographical limits of Miami-Dade County, and if such condition is determined to constitute a sanitary nuisance, the Director or the Director's designee shall serve notice upon the proper party or parties to remove, abate, or correct the said nuisance within twenty-four (24) hours or such other reasonable time as the Director or the Director's designee may determine. 

It shall be the duty of said Director, Environmental Resources Management, to institute proceedings in the appropriate court against all persons failing to comply with notices to remove, abate or correct said nuisance conditions. 

(3)  It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, maintain or allow to be caused or maintained any sanitary nuisance as defined in Section 24-5 herein. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 22-83, § 4, 7-7-22)