Sec. 24-15. - Plan approval required. 

(1)  Intent. It is the intent and purpose of this section to require that all new facilities, equipment, processes, and other improvements enumerated in this section (collectively referred to as "projects") that are constructed or operated after the dates delineated in section 24-4 or as otherwise provided in this chapter shall comply with the requirements herein contained, and that any enlargement, expansion, or addition to existing facilities also shall comply with the requirements herein contained, regardless of whether a building permit or floodplain review for such project is required. 

(a)  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the issuance of a building permit or other development permit by a County or municipal officer, agent, employee, or board shall not obviate the requirement to obtain the Director's approval for any project subject to this chapter, and no construction or other activity authorized by any such permit shall be accepted or approved as complete until the Director has approved the project for compliance with this chapter and as provided herein. 

(b)  Any permit authorizing development, construction, or other activity to be undertaken in violation of this chapter is hereby determined to be void and shall be revoked. 

(c)  Plans shall be submitted in accordance with Sections 24-15.1 through 24-15.4. 

(d)  Applicant's burden. The applicant shall bear the burden of demonstrating compliance, as determined by the Director, with the applicable requirements and shall submit all required information in a format acceptable to the Director in accordance with this section. 

(2)  Wastewater facilities. 

(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following regarding wastewater facilities without first obtaining the prior written approval of the Director: 

(i)  Commence the installation, extension, or operation of any sewerage system, including collection, conveyance, transmission, or treatment or waste treatment facility, or of any industrial waste disposal facility; or 

(ii)  Make any enlargement, alteration, or addition to any sewerage system, including collection, conveyance, transmission, or treatment, to any waste treatment facility, or to any industrial waste disposal facility; or 

(iii)  Commence the construction, enlargement, alteration, or addition of any other project that involves the generation of discharge of effluents or that will reasonably be expected to be a source of water pollution. 

(b)  No building permit involving the generation or discharge of effluents, including domestic sewage, shall be issued unless the application for a building permit has been approved by the Director. 

(c)  The provisions of this section shall not apply to facilities discharging only domestic wastes to a utility or non-utility through a single lateral approved by the Director, provided that a FOG control device is not required pursuant to Section 24-42.6. 

(d)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this section shall apply to facilities discharging only domestic wastes to a utility or non-utility through a single lateral approved by the Director if the facilities have or require a FOG control device in accordance with Section 24-42.6. 

(e)  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, after January 25, 1974, the Director shall not approve an application for an interim package sewage treatment plant unless directed to do so by the Environmental Quality Control Board after a public hearing pursuant to notice. For the purpose of this subsection, an interim package sewage treatment plant shall include all domestic wastewater treatment facilities that are not included in the regional treatment system as described in the approved 1973 Water Quality Management Plan. 

(3)  Air facilities. 

(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to make any major or substantial alteration, enlargement, or addition to any existing facility, equipment, or operation, or to commence the construction or operation of any new facility that may be a source of air pollution as herein defined, without first obtaining the prior written approval of the plans, equipment, or processes thereof by the Director. 

(b)  No building permit shall be issued unless the application therefor or the plans for construction of the proposed facility have been approved by the Director. 

(c)  The provisions of this chapter related to air facilities shall not apply to heating equipment or comfort space heating for individual family dwellings or multiple-family dwellings of not more than four units. 

(4)  Potable water facilities. 

(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to enter into or let a contract for, or to commence the installation, extension, alteration, or operation of, any public water supply facility without first obtaining the prior written approval of the Director. 

(b)  No building permit involving a demand on a public water supply shall be issued unless the application for a building permit or plans for construction thereof have been approved by the Director. 

(5)  Storage facilities, aboveground or underground. 

(a)  It shall be unlawful for any person to install, repair, modify, expand, replace, or permit, cause, allow, let, or suffer the installation, repair, modification, expansion, or replacement of any aboveground or underground storage facility, without first obtaining the prior written approval of the Director 

(b)  No building permit shall be issued unless the application therefor or the plans for construction of the proposed aboveground or underground storage facility show the Director's approval. 

(c)  The Director shall issue such written approval only upon receipt of engineering plans, which are signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Florida and which plans detail that the storage facilities specified in said plans shall be constructed in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, chapter 62-761 of the Florida Administrative Code for underground storage facilities, or chapter 62-762 of the Florida Administrative Code for above ground storage facilities, and the referenced standards contained therein. 

(d)  After receipt of written approval, the owner or operator of the storage facility shall notify the Department a minimum of two working days prior to the commencement of installation, repair, modification, expansion, or replacement of any storage facility. 

(e)  The installation, repair, modification, expansion, or replacement shall be subject to inspection by the Department to determine compliance with the approved plans and applicable laws and ordinances. 

(6)  Onsite Sewage Treatment and Disposal Systems (OSTDSs). 

(a)  On and after January 1, 2023, it shall be unlawful for any person to install a new OSTDS or replace an entire existing OSTDS without first obtaining the prior written approval of the Director pursuant to Section 24-42.7. 

(b)  On and after January 1, 2023, no building permit or equivalent approval having the effect of approving a new OSTDS or replacement of an entire existing OSTDS shall be issued by the County or any municipality without first obtaining the prior written approval of the Director pursuant to Section 24-42.7. 

(c)  For the purposes of this section, replacement of both the septic or treatment tank and either the drainfield or other disposal system shall constitute replacement of the entire existing OSTDS. 

(7)  Non-structural impervious surface improvements; procedures applicability to municipalities. 

(a)  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code or any municipal code or regulation, on and after March 31, 2025, no non-structural impervious surface improvements shall be permitted or installed on any parcel or property in the incorporated or unincorporated areas without first obtaining the Director's prior approval pursuant to Section 24-42.8, except as provided in this subsection. Permit applications submitted prior to March 31, 2025, shall be evaluated and decided based on the requirements and standards of this chapter in effect at the time of application, however, any future applications that are filed on or after March 31, 2025, including resubmittals for building permit applications that were filed prior to the relevant date but were thereafter denied or revoked, shall be reviewed pursuant to all of the provisions of Chapter 24 that are then in effect. 

(b)  For non-structural impervious surface improvements on single-family and duplex properties within a municipality, the Director's review and approval pursuant to Section 24-42.8 is not required only where all the following are complied with: 

(i)  The respective municipality has adopted its own ordinance regulating non-structural impervious surface improvements on single-family and duplex properties, or as otherwise allowed in subparagraph (vi) below. 

(ii)  The Director has issued a written determination that the municipal ordinance, and any subsequent amendments thereto, are at least as stringent as Section 24-42.8. 

(iii)  The municipality continues to enforce its adopted ordinance, including amendments approved pursuant to this section. 

(iv)  The Director's review and approval shall continue to be required in accordance with this chapter until the Director has issued such written determination that the municipal ordinance, and any subsequent amendments thereto, are at least as stringent as Section 24-42.8. 

(v)  Except as provided otherwise in this section, a municipal ordinance or amendment regulating non-structural impervious surface improvements for single-family and duplex properties for which the municipality seeks the Director's review and approval pursuant to this section shall be sent to the Director and the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners within 90 days of adoption. 

(vi)  Notwithstanding subparagraph (iv), the Director's review and approval is not required while the municipal ordinance is under review where the following conditions are satisfied: 

1.  The municipality had adopted an ordinance regulating non-structural impervious surface improvements for single-family and duplex properties prior to [insert effective date of this ordinance] and complies with all the following: 

a.  The municipality sends to the Director and the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, by December 31, 2024, a written notice of its intent to seek the Director's review and approval of such ordinance pursuant to this subsection; and 

b.  The municipality submits its ordinance for review by December 31, 2025. 

2.  Alternatively, a municipality that has not previously adopted such an ordinance and intends to adopt such an ordinance and complies with all the following: 

a.  The municipality sends to the Director and the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, by December 31, 2024, a written notice of its intent to adopt an ordinance regulating non-structural impervious surface improvements for single-family and duplex properties pursuant to this subsection; and 

b.  The municipality adopts such an ordinance, and submits such ordinance to the Director for review, by December 31, 2025. 

3.  Alternatively, a municipality that has previously adopted such an ordinance but considers its standards to be less stringent than those provided in Section 24-42.8 and intends to adopt changes to such ordinance and complies with all the conditions for a municipality that intends to adopt an ordinance, as set forth in subparagraph (vi)2. above. 

(vii)  Upon issuance of a written disapproval, the Director's review and approval shall be required for all non-structural impervious surface improvements on single-family and duplex properties within the municipality. 

(viii)  Notwithstanding any written approval of a municipal ordinance pursuant to this subsection, the Director's review and approval in accordance with this chapter will nevertheless be required, in addition to any applicable municipal approval, if the Director, in the Director's sole discretion, issues a written determination that such review and approval is required based on one or more of the following reasons: 

1.  A portion of this subsection is not complied with; or 

2.  The Director determines that approved non-structural impervious surface improvements on single-family or duplex properties are causing or have caused flooding or stormwater control issues on adjacent or adjoining property or on the public right-of-way. 

(ix)  For purposes of this subsection, a "townhouse" as defined in the most current Florida Building Code, Building Edition, shall be considered a single-family property. 

(8)  Stormwater infrastructure. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, on and after March 31, 2025, no development, improvement, construction, or alteration of a parcel or property that contains stormwater infrastructure shall be permitted until the Director's prior written approval has been obtained pursuant to this chapter, except as provided in subsection (7) above. With respect to stormwater infrastructure, permit applications submitted prior to March 31, 2025, shall be evaluated and decided based on the stormwater requirements and stormwater standards of this chapter in effect at the time of application, however, any future applications that are filed on or after March 31, 2025, including resubmittals for building permit applications that were filed prior to the relevant date but were thereafter denied or revoked, shall be reviewed pursuant to all of the provisions of Chapter 24 that are then in effect. 

(9)  Other projects that reduce pervious area. 

(a)  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, no County or municipal officer, agent, employee, or board shall approve, grant, or issue any building permit for any project that is not otherwise enumerated in this section and that decreases pervious area unless the Director's prior written approval of the application has been obtained pursuant to this chapter. 

(b)  Projects subject to the foregoing requirement include, without limitation, swimming pools, whether for residential or non-residential use, and paving and drainage permits. 

(c)  If dewatering is required for a swimming pool installation, including on residential property, no County or municipal officer, agent, employee, or board shall approve, grant, or issue any building permit for such pool until a Class V permit as defined in Section 24-48.1 has been obtained in accordance with this chapter. 

(10)  Other facilities requiring operating permits. For facilities that require operating permits but are not otherwise enumerated in this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to install, modify, or operate such a facility without first obtaining the prior written approval of the Director pursuant to Section 24-18. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 05-196, § 2, 11-3-05; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 18-22, § 4, 2-21-18; Ord. No. 20-25, § 1, 2-19-20; Ord. No. 22-83, § 3, 7-7-22; Ord. No. 24-14, § 6, 2-6-24; Ord. No. 24-92, § 1, 9-4-24)