Sec. 24-15.1. - Procedure for approval of plans. 

(1)  APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL. Applications required by Section 24-15 or other provisions of this chapter, as applicable, for approval of plans to construct, extend, or alter a facility, system, equipment, process, or other improvement (collectively referred to herein as a "project") shall be made on forms prescribed for such purpose by and filed with the Director. 

(a)  Such application shall be signed by the person seeking approval or a duly authorized representative vested with lawful power to bind the applicant. 

(b)  Upon receipt of such application and supporting data, the Director shall review all data and render a decision on the acceptability of the project in accordance with the applicable standards set forth in this chapter. 

(2)  REQUIRED INFORMATION. Each such application shall be accompanied by the following data and information submitted in a form acceptable to the Director: 

(a)  Report of engineer. A comprehensive signed and sealed engineer's report describing the project, the basis of design, including design data, and all other pertinent data necessary to give an accurate understanding of the work to be undertaken and the reason therefor. Such report shall contain a certificate of a professional engineer licensed in the State of Florida certifying that in such engineer's professional opinion, the design of the project fully complies with the requirements of this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder, and will not cause or tend to cause any flooding or pollution as herein defined. 

(b)  Information related to stormwater infrastructure. 

(i)  For any application that includes stormwater infrastructure, an engineering report that includes at least the following shall be submitted: 

1.  a detailed description of the stormwater infrastructure and any alterations to existing stormwater infrastructure proposed; 

2.  basis of design with design data and calculations; 

3.  hydrology and hydraulic data and information, including storm duration and frequency; 

4.  geotechnical and other signed and sealed field test results quantifying infiltration, percolation, seepage, drawdown, upwelling, mounding, flow rates, and other properties of the ground, soil, subsurface, aquifer, and wells for the project and adjacent parcels and land, as applicable for the study; 

5.  topographical, aerial and other signed and sealed surveys for the project and adjacent parcels and land, as applicable for the study; 

6.  assumptions; 

7.  if a project disturbs 0.25 or more acres of land or is part of a larger common plan of development that will collectively disturb such quantity of land, a signed and sealed Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) demonstrating stabilization measures and pollution prevention controls designed to prevent erosion and sediment loss in areas exposed by the construction process, in accordance with the following: 

a.  For purposes of this paragraph, "disturb" means to clear, grade, excavate land. 

b.  The SWPPP shall provide sufficient details on the proposed measures to prevent dust particulates and stormwater runoff from leaving the site. 

c.  Prevention measures must include the protection of existing stormwater drainage structures onsite and offsite from impacts of siltation, turbidity, and ponding from the construction site. 

d.  Prevention measures may also include structural controls such as retention ponds, temporary sediment basins, entrance/exit controls, silt fencing, berms, and non-structural controls such as stabilization, phased construction, and good housekeeping. 

e.  The SWPPP shall include an inspection and maintenance schedule of the proposed pollution prevention controls; and 

8.  all other pertinent information and data necessary to demonstrate that the proposed work is designed to comply with this chapter and engineering and scientific standards and principles. 

(ii)  For purposes of this paragraph (b), engineering and scientific principles include, but are not limited to, the latest editions of: 

1.  the County public works manual; 

2.  the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, National Engineering Handbook; 

3.  the South Florida Water Management District Environmental Resource Permit Applicant's Handbook; and 

4.  relevant publications of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, United States Geological Survey, United States Environmental Protection Agency, and Florida Department of Environmental Protection. 

(c)  Construction drawings. Construction drawings showing existing conditions and the proposed work in sufficient detail to describe the project's construction and to demonstrate compliance with this chapter. Each sheet of the drawings shall be signed, sealed, and dated by the engineer of record. 

(d)  Specifications. Complete technical specifications in sufficient detail necessary to supplement the drawings and specify the work and the methods by which it is to be accomplished. 

(e)  Operating Procedures. A description of all operating procedures proposed to be utilized in connection with the operation of the project sufficient to demonstrate the project, when constructed in accordance with the submitted designs, will operate in compliance with this chapter. 

(f)  Additional data. Such additional data and information as may be reasonably required by the Director, including, but not limited to, Baseline Monitoring Reports, Compliance Reports, or any report required for compliance pursuant to the Federal Pretreatment Regulations. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 24-92, § 1, 9-4-24)