Sec. 24-49.3. - Preliminary review of projects involving tree removal or relocation. 

The Department shall review and comment on the following actions: Any application for zoning relief which requires a public hearing before the Miami-Dade County Community Zoning Appeals Board or the Board of County Commissioners; applications for plat approval; administrative site plan review; applications for approval of development plans by the developmental impact committee and the South Florida Regional Planning Council; proposed plans for new roadways or improvements to highway design projects; proposed plans for new public park and recreational areas and other public facilities. This review procedure shall determine if a tree removal permit is required under Section 24-49, and whether the following standards, when applicable, are adhered to: 

(1)  Any proposed action that does not involve specimen trees or development in a natural forest community shall be subject to the replacement standards in Section 24-49.4. 

(2)  Development within natural forest communities or involving specimen trees: 

(a)  If it is determined that the proposed development site is within a natural forest community or involves removal of a specimen tree, the standards set forth in Section 24-49.2 shall apply. Proposed site actions that are not in accordance with said standards shall receive a recommendation of denial from the Department. 

(b)  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code, no County or municipal officer, agent, employee or Board shall approve, grant or issue any building permit, certificate of use and occupancy (except for changes in ownership), platting action (final plat, waiver of plat or equivalent municipal platting action) or zoning action requiring a public hearing before the Miami-Dade County Community Zoning Appeals Board or the Board of County Commissioners for any land use involving division of property into parcels less than five (5) acres within natural forest communities without obtaining the prior written recommendation of the Director or the Director's designee. The Director or the Director's designee shall issue his written recommendation of approval only if the Director or the Director's designee determines that a preservation area equivalent in size to the minimum preservation area required for the site under Section 24-49.2(I) has been designated prior to the proposed action. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)