Sec. 24-50.2. - Definitions. 

The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section: 

(1)  Acquisition proposal shall mean (a) parcel(s) of land which has/have been nominated or recommended for acquisition in accordance with procedures provided for hereinbelow. 

(2)  Acquisition project shall mean (a) parcel(s) of land approved by the Board of County Commissioners for acquisition by the county in accordance with procedures provided for hereinbelow. 

(3)  Ancillary land shall mean that land which is adjacent to environmental land and which is necessary to the management and protection of the environmental land for such purposes as fence installation, access of maintenance equipment, firebreaks, parking, or other management activities which are indicated in the management feasibility evaluation. 

(4)  Bona fide organization shall mean an organization which has an elected board of directors, has adopted a charter, by-laws, or rules of procedure, conducts a meeting of its membership at least annually, and which has been in existence in Miami-Dade County for at least two (2) years prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter derives. 

(5)  Buffer land shall mean that land which is adjacent to publicly-owned environmental land or to an environmental land acquisition proposal or project, or that land which is an inholding within publicly-owned environmental land or within an environmental land acquisition proposal or project, and which, if not acquired, would threaten the environmental integrity of the existing resource, or if acquired, would enhance the environmental integrity of the resource. 

(6)  Environmental land shall mean that land which contains natural forest or wetland communities, native plant communities, rare and endangered flora and fauna, endemic species, endangered species habitat, a diversity of species, or outstanding geologic or other natural features, or that land which functions as an integral and sustaining component of an existing ecosystem. 

(7)  Management shall mean the preservation, enhancement, restoration, conservation, monitoring, or maintenance of the natural resource values of environmentally-endangered lands which have been acquired or approved for management under the Environmentally Endangered Lands Program. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04)