Sec. 24-11. - Appeals from actions or decision of the Director of the Miami-Dade County Department of Environmental Resources Management. 

Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Director, may appeal to the Environmental Quality Control Board by filing within fifteen (15) days after the date of the action or decision complained of, a written notice of appeal which shall set forth concisely the action or decision appealed from and the reasons or grounds for the appeal. The Environmental Quality Control Board shall set such appeal for hearing at the earliest possible date, and cause notice thereof to be served upon the appellant and the Director. The Environmental Quality Control Board shall hear and consider all facts material to the appeal, and render a decision promptly. The Environmental Quality Control Board may affirm, reverse or modify the action or decision appealed from provided that the Environmental Quality Control Board shall not take any action which conflicts with or nullifies any of the provisions of this chapter, or applicable federal or state law, or binding agreement between the County and any Federal or State Agency governing any applicable law. The decision of the Environmental Quality Control Board shall constitute final administrative review and no hearing or reconsideration shall be considered. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Environmental Quality Control Board on an appeal shall be entitled to judicial review in accordance with the Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure. The words "action" and "decision" as used herein shall not include the filing of any action by the Director, in any court. The Board shall not have jurisdiction to reconsider the subject matter of any appeal after its final administrative determination for a period of six (6) months from the date of the Board's final action, unless the Board determines that there has been a material and substantial change in the circumstances; provided, however, any action taken or decision made by the Director at any time may be reconsidered by the Director and the Director may therefore modify any such action or decision. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 18-22, § 2, 2-21-18)