Sec. 24-39. - Tree Trust Fund. 

(1)  Creation of the Tree Trust Fund. There is hereby created a Tree Trust Fund, the purpose of which is to acquire, protect and maintain natural forest communities in Miami-Dade County and to plant trees on public property. 

(2)  Disbursement and maintenance of the Tree Trust Fund. Monies obtained for the Tree Trust Fund shall be disbursed for the acquisition, maintenance, management and protection of natural forest communities, or for planting trees on public property, in accordance with the following: 

(a)  Such monies may be used as a matching fund contribution towards the acquisition of natural forest communities in Miami-Dade County in association with other public land acquisition programs, such as, but not limited to, the State of Florida Conservation and Recreational Lands Trust Fund. 

(b)  Said trust fund shall be kept and maintained in trust by the Board of County Commissioners solely for the purposes set forth in this section in a separate and segregated fund of the County which shall not be commingled with other County funds until disbursed for an authorized purpose pursuant to this section. 

(c)  Disbursement from the tree trust fund shall require approval by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, provided, however, that any funds received pursuant to the conditions of any tree removal permit shall be used as required by the permit conditions without the necessity of approval, appropriation, or action of any kind by the Board of County Commissioners. Prior to approving disbursements, the Board of County Commissioners shall consider the recommendations of the County Mayor. The County Mayor, prior to making any such recommendations, shall consider the recommendations of the Department pertaining to the proposed disbursement(s) for the acquisition of natural forest communities or planting of trees on public property. 

(d)  The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish the Tree Trust Fund and to receive and disburse monies in accordance with the provisions of this section. 

(e)  Tree Trust Fund Subaccounts. Notwithstanding anything provided herein, on an annual basis, monies equivalent to 60 percent of the previous fiscal year's contributions to the Tree Trust Fund shall be placed in two Subaccounts of the Tree Trust Fund, and such Subaccounts shall be dedicated solely to the planting of trees on public property. Disbursements from these Subaccounts shall be made pursuant to the procedures and requirements of Section 2-1336(2) of this Code. 

(i)  Monies equivalent to 30 percent of the previous year's contributions to the Tree Trust Fund shall be placed in a Subaccount of the Tree Trust Fund, and such Subaccount shall be dedicated to the administration of the GREEN (Growing Roots for Environmentally Equitable Neighborhoods) Miami-Dade County Matching Grant for the planting of trees on public property located within Miami-Dade County's incorporated areas. Disbursements from this Subaccount shall be made pursuant to the procedures and requirements of Section 2-1336(2) of this Code. 

(ii)  Monies equivalent to 30 percent of the previous year's contributions to the Tree Trust Fund shall be placed in a Subaccount of the Tree Trust Fund, and such Subaccount shall be dedicated solely to the planting of trees on public property located within Miami-Dade County's unincorporated service area. Disbursements from this Subaccount shall be made pursuant to the procedures and requirements of Section 2-1336(2) of this Code. 

(iii)  General Tree Trust Fund Subaccount for Tree Planting on Public Property Anywhere Within Miami-Dade County. This Subaccount shall be utilized for additional funds beyond the 60 percent contemplated in section (e) above that may be available from the Tree Trust Fund. This Subaccount shall be utilized for the planting of trees either within municipal boundaries or in areas of Miami-Dade County's unincorporated service area as determined by the Neat Streets Board. Disbursements from this Subaccount shall be made pursuant to the procedures and requirements of Section 2-1336(2) of this Code. 

(3)  Reserved. 

(4)  Source of monies for the Tree Trust Fund. Said Tree Trust Fund shall consist of the following monies: 

(a)  All monies collected by the Department for environmental damages to tree or forest resources and environmental mitigation for the loss of tree or forest resources which are obtained through civil lawsuits, consent agreements or after-the-fact tree removal permits, except penalties and administrative costs. 

(b)  All monies offered to and accepted by Miami-Dade County for the Tree Trust Fund in the form of federal, State, or other governmental grants, allocations or appropriations, as well as foundation or private grants and donations, shall be disbursed strictly in accordance with terms and conditions of the grant, allocation, appropriation or donation and shall be earmarked accordingly. 

(c)  Contributions in lieu of, or in conjunction with, the replacement planting provisions of Section 24-49.4(2). The Department shall collect funds designated for the Tree Trust Fund when the replacement planting requirements of Section 24-49.4(2) cannot be met, and in accordance with Section 24-49.2(II)(5). 

(5)  Interest. Unless otherwise restricted by the terms and conditions of a particular grant, gift, appropriation or allocation, all interest earned by the investment of all monies in the Tree Trust Fund shall be disbursed by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners for any project authorized consistent with Section 24-39. Trust fund monies shall be invested only in accordance with the laws pertaining to the investment of County funds. 

(6)  Decisions to grant or deny tree removal permits shall be made without consideration of the existence of this fund or offers of donations of monies thereto. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 16-93, § 1, 9-7-16; Ord. No. 21-122, § 4, 11-2-21)