Sec. 24-50.6. - Land Acquisition Selection Committee. 

(1)  Land Acquisition Selection Committee established; qualifications of members. 

(a)  There is hereby established an Advisory Board in accordance with Sections 2-11.36 through 2-11.40 of this Code to be known as the Miami-Dade County Land Acquisition Selection Committee (hereinafter referred to as the LASC). 

(b)  The LASC shall be composed of seven (7) members and one (1) alternate member. 

(2)  Method of appointment; terms of membership. 

(a)  The County Manager shall recommend to the Board sixteen (16) candidates for the seven (7) regular members' seats on the LASC and the one (1) alternate member's seat. Preference will be given to candidates who have a record of service in environmental or civic affairs in Miami-Dade County and who have been recommended by one or more bona fide environmental, civic, or professional organizations. 

(b)  The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint, from the list of candidates recommended by the County Manager, four (4) members and the alternate to serve for two (2) years and three (3) members to serve for three (3) years. At the end of the two (2) years, the successors to the initial two-year appointments shall be appointed for three (3) years. 

(3)  Quorum; conduct of Committee and rules of procedure; meetings. 

(a)  A quorum of the Committee shall be five (5) persons. 

(b)  At its first meeting, the Committee shall establish its rules of procedure and shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected annually thereafter. 

(c)  The alternate member shall enjoy the same privileges and responsibilities as the regular members, except that the alternate member cannot vote unless a regular member is absent. 

(d)  An extraordinary majority of five (5) votes shall be required for determining sites for acquisition as provided for in Sections 24-50.8 through 24-50.11 hereinbelow. 

(e)  The LASC shall hold at least four (4) regular meetings each year. 

(i)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2-11.38 through 2-11.39 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, any member or alternate member of the LASC who is absent from three (3) meetings in any one (1) year shall forfeit membership and shall not be eligible to be reappointed to the LASC. In the event a member shall resign or forfeit his membership on the LASC, a quorum of the members in good standing may, by majority vote, elect the alternate to become a permanent voting member. 

(ii)  Within thirty (30) days from the date a vacancy occurs, the County Manager shall recommend to the Board of County Commissioners two (2) candidates who meet the qualifications set forth in Section 24-50.6(2)(a) above to fill that vacancy. The Board shall select one of the two (2) candidates to serve the remainder of the term. 

(4)  Responsibilities of the Land Acquisition Selection Committee. 

(a)  The primary responsibility of the LASC is to recommend to the Board of County Commissioners a semi-annual acquisition list pursuant to Section 24-50.9 hereinbelow. 

(b)  In developing its recommendations, the LASC shall act in accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in Sections 24-50.7 through 24-50.11 and in furtherance of the purposes of the EEL Program as set forth in Section 24-50.4. 

(c)  The LASC may, from time to time, recommend to the Board (or to the County Manager, as appropriate) proposed expenditures from the EEL Trust Funds; additional selection or acquisition policies, procedures, standards, criteria, strategies, schedules, and programs; and other such matters as may be necessary to fulfill the purposes of the EEL Program. 

(d)  At its first meeting, or within fourteen (14) days thereafter, the LASC shall recommend action on those Miami-Dade County projects which are ranked on the State of Florida 1991 Conservation and Recreation Land Priority List or which appear on the State of Florida Land Acquisition Trust Fund List with particular regard for the joint acquisition of these projects by the State of Florida and the EEL Program, as set forth in R-1262-90. So that the LASC may act expeditiously, this recommendation is exempted from the procedural requirements provided for in Sections 24-50.10 and 24-50.11, but shall be based upon the considerations set forth in Sections 24-50.7 and 24-50.8. 

(5)  Limitation of powers of Committee. The LASC shall have no power or authority to commit Metropolitan Miami-Dade County to any policies, to incur any financial obligations or to create any liability on the part of the County. The actions and recommendations of the LASC are advisory only and shall not be binding upon the County unless approved or adopted by the Board of County Commissioners. 

(6)  Termination of the Committee. At such time as there are insufficient uncommitted funds in the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund to conclude another acquisition and all acquisition projects have been closed, the LASC shall report to the County Commission that its business is concluded. All remaining EEL Acquisition Trust Fund monies shall then be transferred to the EEL Management Trust Fund and shall be added to the principal thereof as provided for in Section 24-50.5(2)(b)(i). 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)