Sec. 24-16. - Construction of certain projects. 

(1)  After approval of an application pursuant to section 24-15 for a wastewater facility, air pollution abatement facility, or potable water facility, the person causing the installation or construction of the project shall maintain records of the completed work. In addition, this section shall also apply to applications approved pursuant to section 24-15 for stormwater management systems that are owned or operated by a municipality or other public entity that operates solely within Miami-Dade County, or owned, funded, or operated by or on behalf of a special taxing district, community development district or private property owners' association that operates entirely within Miami-Dade County and that owns or operates stormwater infrastructure that drains into drainage infrastructure in a public right-of-way. 

(2)  Upon written request, the applicant or the person or entity responsible for a project subject to this section shall furnish the Director with monthly reports, including a project closure report and as-built plans, prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Florida, certifying that the work to date has been accomplished in strict compliance with the approved plans, drawings, and specifications and that there has been no major or substantial deviation therefrom, or as applicable, that all revisions have been authorized and are identified in the report. As applicable, the report shall also include as-built plans that have been prepared based on a survey that is signed and sealed by a licensed surveyor in the State of Florida. 

(3)  If during construction, changes are proposed that would materially alter the operation, capacity, configuration, functionality, or quality characteristics of any of the following, then plans, drawings, reports, and specifications for such changes shall be prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the State of the Florida and submitted to the Director for approval before making any such changes: 

(a)  the effluent of a sewerage system, industrial waste disposal, or other wastewater facility; 

(b)  the emission of air pollutants of an air pollution abatement facility; 

(c)  the effluent of a potable water facility; or 

(d)  stormwater infrastructure or its ability to protect water quality or prevent stormwater runoff or flooding; or 

(e)  a wastewater collection and transmission system (WCTS) or the quality characteristics of its effluent. 

(4)  Only those changes that have received the Director's prior written approval shall be implemented. 

(5)  The Director shall have the right at any reasonable time to enter upon the project for the purpose of making inspections of the work and may require reports and additional information at any stage of construction. 

(6)  It shall be unlawful for any person causing the installation or construction of the project to deviate from the conditions of the Director's approval without the Director's prior written approval. 

(7)  Any deviation from the approved plans, drawings, operations, or specifications may constitute grounds for revocation of the Director's approval and any permits reliant on such approval. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 24-92, § 1, 9-4-24) 

Editor's note— Ord. No. 24-92, § 1, adopted September 4, 2024, changed to title of § 24-16 from "construction of waste water facility or air pollution abatement facility, or potable water facility" to read as set out above.