Sec. 24-21.1. - Stormwater management systems; records and recertification required. 

(1)  Records required. On or before December 31, 2026, the following shall be responsible for submitting to and in the form prescribed by the Director the asset inventory, the current maintenance and inspections Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and maintenance records of its respective stormwater infrastructure in accordance with the following: 

(a)  Each municipality or other public entity that operates solely within Miami-Dade County and that owns or operates stormwater infrastructure that drains runoff from the public right-of-way or otherwise serves a public right-of-way shall submit such records for such entity's entire stormwater management system. 

(b)  Each special taxing district, community development district, and private property owners' association that operates entirely within Miami-Dade County and that owns or operates stormwater infrastructure that connects to or drains into public right-of-way drainage infrastructure shall submit such required records for all privately owned stormwater infrastructure that is owned, funded, or operated by or on behalf of the respective district or association. 

(c)  This section shall not apply to public entities, such as the Florida Department of Transportation, that also own and operate stormwater infrastructure outside of Miami-Dade County. 

(d)  Asset records may be submitted in electronic or hard copy form acceptable to the Director. 

(e)  Maintenance records and maintenance and inspections Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), from municipalities or other public entities may be submitted in the form provided to the State pursuant to NPDES MS4 Permit requirements or on such other form as may be acceptable to the Director 

(f)  Maintenance records from special taxing districts, community development districts, and private property owners' associations shall be submitted on a form acceptable to the Director. 

(2)  Recertification required. Each municipality or other public entity, special taxing district, community development district, and private property owners' association that is subject to subsection (1) shall also be responsible for obtaining from the Director recertification of all its respective stormwater infrastructure, in accordance with the following: 

(a)  Each recertification application shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Director. 

(b)  Initial recertification shall be obtained by March 31, 2028. 

(c)  Subsequent recertification shall be obtained every ten years thereafter, unless the Director, in the Director's sole discretion, determines that more frequent recertification is required for one or more of the following reasons: 

(i)  documented and repeated flooding has occurred in an area served by a portion of the respective stormwater infrastructure; 

(ii)  any portion of the respective stormwater infrastructure is the subject of an enforcement action or notice of violation issued pursuant to this chapter; or 

(iii)  corrective actions identified through the review and recertification required by this subsection have not been implemented within the specified timeframes. 

(d)  The initial and subsequent recertification applications shall include a cover letter from the applicable public works director, building official, or other appropriate official or representative overseeing the management of the stormwater system. The application package shall include copies of the following documents, or, in the alternative, documents submitted to the State to fulfill the requirements of the NPDES MS4 Permit that include the same information, in an electronic or hard copy form acceptable to the Director: 

(i)  the Stormwater Master Plan, updated in the last 5 years, signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Florida or officially adopted; 

(ii)  a Stormwater Capital Improvement Plan updated in the last 5 years, showing (at a minimum) project descriptions, estimated costs per project, and timetable for implementation; 

(iii)  all annual maintenance reports since the previous submittal of those records to the Director, which may be in the same format as such prior submittals; 

(iv)  new asset records showing changes that have occurred since the last submittal of those records to the Director; 

(v)  the up-to-date maintenance and inspections Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs); and 

(vi)  the annual fiscal analysis submitted to the State to fulfill the requirements of the NPDES MS4 Permit, or other annual fiscal analysis on a form acceptable to the Director. 

(e)  As an alternative to the submittal of records specified in paragraph (d) above, the recertification application may include a report that is signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Florida and assesses, following the engineer's physical inspection, whether: 

(i)  such stormwater infrastructure continues to operate in accordance with, and to otherwise comply with, the requirements of this chapter and the conditions and terms of any prior approval of said stormwater infrastructure pursuant to this chapter; and 

(ii)  such stormwater infrastructure has caused, or no record has been found that it has caused, any pollution, contamination of air, water, soil, or property, flooding, or runoff in violation of this chapter or the rules or regulations promulgated hereunder. 

(f)  For existing stormwater infrastructure for which no prior approval exists and where the applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director that no approval was required at the time of installation, recertification shall nevertheless be required. Such recertification shall consider whether such stormwater infrastructure has caused, or no record has been found that is has caused, any pollution, contamination of air, water, soil, or property, flooding, or runoff in violation of this chapter or the rules or regulations promulgated hereunder. 

(g)  For stormwater infrastructure that does not fully comply with the requirements of this chapter or any prior approval of said stormwater infrastructure pursuant to this chapter, or for stormwater infrastructure for which records or other evidence show that it has caused pollution, flooding, or runoff, the Stormwater Master Plan or the engineer's report required by this subsection shall identify all such deficiencies and shall recommend corrective actions and a timeline by which such corrective actions will be accomplished. 

(h)  Following review of the recertification application, the Director shall issue a written recertification. Recertification may be issued subject to conditions necessary to ensure the proper operation of stormwater infrastructure, including, without limitation, corrective actions needed to address violations, a schedule to implement such corrective actions, and a requirement that additional recertification be obtained sooner than this section requires. 

(Ord. No. 24-92, § 1, 9-4-24)