Sec. 24-10. - Issuance of stop orders; injunctions; standards of service. 

Whenever any public utility as herein defined engages or is about to engage in the construction, operation or extension of a water system or sewer system in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Director, on the Director's own initiative or upon complaint, shall forthwith make such preliminary investigation as he may deem appropriate and may, either with or without notice, enter an order requiring such public utility to cease and desist from such construction, operation or extension until further order of the Board. A public hearing on such violation shall be held by the Board within thirty (30) days after the entry of the order to cease and desist. Reasonable written notice of the public hearing shall be given by mail to the public utility involved. Within fifteen (15) days after the hearing the Board shall enter an order either requiring the permanent cessation of construction, operation or extension, or authorizing continuation thereof under such terms and conditions as may be commensurate with the public interest and welfare. Any failure to comply with the stop orders of the Board may be enjoined and restrained by injunctive order of the Circuit Court in appropriate proceedings instituted for such purpose. 

The Environmental Quality Control Board shall have the power, and it shall be its duty, to establish reasonable standards of service for each class of public utilities as defined in Section 32-4(c) of the Code, after notice and public hearing, and thereafter to enforce such standards. In performing this duty, the Board shall exercise its powers to conduct investigations and inspections, to make examinations and tests, to prescribe standards of measurement for testing the quality, pressure, or other conditions pertaining to the supply or quality of the product furnished or adequacy of the service rendered by any such utility, and to fix fees for the examination and testing of meters and other measuring devices, as provided by law in establishing the general regulatory powers of the Board, and as directed herein. Standards previously adopted by the Water and Sewer Board pursuant to Section 32-51 remain in full force and effect under the jurisdiction of the Environmental Quality Control Board until modified as provided above. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)