Sec. 24-37. - Wetlands Trust Fund. 

(1)  The Wetlands Trust Fund is created for use in acquiring, restoring, enhancing, managing or monitoring (or any combination of the above) wetlands within Miami-Dade County as well as any associated hammock and pineland communities. Monies also may be disbursed for such purposes for wetlands located outside of Miami-Dade County so long as they benefit wetland ecosystems in Miami-Dade County. The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to establish the Wetlands Trust Fund and to receive and disburse monies in accordance with the provisions of this section. 

(2)  The Wetlands Trust Fund shall receive monies from the following sources: 

(a)  All monies collected by the Department pursuant to Section 24-48.5(2)(e). 

(b)  All monies accepted by Miami-Dade County in the form of federal, state, or other governmental grants, allocations, or appropriations, as well as foundation or private grants and donations, for the acquisition, restoration, enhancement, management or monitoring of wetlands as provided for in Section 24-37(4). 

(c)  All monies received from the forfeiture of mitigation bonds pursuant to Section 24-48.12(3). 

(d)  Such additional allocations as may be made by the Board of County Commissioners from time to time for the purposes set forth herein. 

(3)  All interest generated from the sources identified in Section 24-37(2)(a), (b), (c) and (d) hereinabove, except where monies received have been otherwise designated or restricted. 

(4)  The Wetlands Trust Fund shall be maintained in trust by the Finance Director for the Board of County Commissioners solely for the purposes set forth herein, in a separate and segregated fund of the County which shall not be commingled with other County funds until disbursed for an authorized purpose pursuant to Section 24-37(4). 

(5)  Disbursements from the Wetlands Trust Fund shall only be made for the following purposes: 

(a)  Acquisition, including by eminent domain, restoration, enhancement, management or monitoring of wetland properties located within Miami-Dade County. 

(b)  All costs associated with each such acquisition including, but not limited to, appraisals, surveys, title search work, real property taxes, documentary stamps and surtax fees, and other transaction costs. 

(c)  Costs of administering the activities enumerated in Section 24-37(4)(a) and (b), hereinabove, will be funded from the proceeds of the Wetlands Trust Fund until such time as the fund is closed. 

(6)  Disbursements from the Wetlands Trust Fund for the acquisition of eligible properties shall require approval by the Board of County Commissioners after a public hearing on the proposed acquisition. A notice of the time and place of said public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Miami-Dade County a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the public hearing. Said notice shall include the location and a brief statement of the reason for the proposed acquisition. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 12-58, § 4, 7-3-12)