Sec. 24-48.18. - Transfer of permits. 

(1)  The Director, or the Director's designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to transfer, in whole or in part, short form and standard form class I, class II, class III, class IV, class V or class VI permits issued pursuant to this Article from the person (transferor) who has obtained the issued permit to another person (transferee) and shall transfer same, provided: 

(a)  The completed application for transfer is filed in writing with the Director, or the Director's designee, on or before one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of transfer of fee simple ownership of the property which is the subject of the permit, and 

(b)  The application for transfer is determined by the Director, or the Director's designee, to be completed on or before one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of transfer of fee simple ownership of the property which is the subject of the permit approval, and 

(c)  That all of the requirements of (3) below are fulfilled. 

(2)  The Director, or the Director's designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to transfer, in whole or in part, short form and class I, class II, class III, class IV, class V or class VI permit approvals by the Board of County Commissioners from the person (transferor) who obtained the permit approval from the Board of County Commissioners to another person (transferee) and shall transfer same, provided: 

(a)  The completed application for transfer is filed in writing with the Director, or the Director's designee, on or before one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of transfer of fee simple ownership of the property which is the subject of the permit approval, and 

(b)  The application for transfer is determined by the Director, or the Director's designee to be completed on or before one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of transfer of fee simple ownership of the property which is the subject of the permit approval, and 

(c)  All of the requirements of (3) below are fulfilled. 

(3)  Requirements for transfer: 

(a)  The subject project shall be in compliance with all of the restrictions, limitations, and conditions of the issued Class I, Class II, Class III, Class IV, Class V or Class VI permit or permit approval and any related covenants running with the land at the time of submittal of the application for transfer, and continuously throughout the time period during which the application for transfer is being processed by the Department. 

(b)  The completed application for transfer shall be filed jointly in writing by the proposed transferor and transferee in a form prescribed by the Director, or the Director's designee, not later than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of the issued permit and, for permit approvals granted by the Board of County Commissioners for which a permit has not yet been issued, not later than ninety (90) days prior to expiration of the permit approval. 

(c)  If the person to whom the permit has been issued or permit approval granted transfers fee simple ownership of the property which is the subject of the permit or permit approval prior to submittal to the Department of the application for transfer, the proposed transferee shall be the current fee simple property owner and evidence of such fee simple property ownership shall be provided to the Department as part of the application for transfer. 

(d)  The proposed transferee shall agree in writing, in a form prescribed by the Director or the Director's designee, to comply with all the existing conditions, limitations, and restrictions of the issued permit or granted permit approval as part of the application for transfer. 

(e)  The proposed transferee shall post a performance and mitigation bond, if applicable, in the same amount and form as is currently required in the existing permit for the subject project as part of the application for transfer. 

(f)  All applicable fees for such transfer shall be paid as part of the application for transfer. 

(g)  All additional information requested by the Director or the Director's designee with respect to the subject property shall be provided to the Department as part of the application for transfer within the time period required by the Director or the Director's designee. 

(h)  The proposed transferee shall agree to any additional conditions, limitations or restrictions to the issued permit required by the Director or the Director's designee, which are consistent with the issued short form or issued standard form permit and, for permit approvals granted by the Board of County Commissioners, any additional conditions, limitations or restrictions which are consistent with the original granting of the approval by the Board of County Commissioners, as part of the application for transfer. In the case of rockmining, such conditions, limitations, or restrictions shall not reduce the deep mining area and volume previously permitted. 

(i)  The proposed transferee has not been convicted of a violation of any provision of Chapter 24 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida within the seven (7) year time period prior to the filing of the application for transfer. 

(j)  The proposed transferee has not been adjudicated in violation of any provision of Chapter 24 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, within the five-year time period prior to the filing of the application for transfer. 

(k)  The proposed transferee shall provide evidence of compliance with all of the following provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida as part of the application for transfer: 

(i)  Section 24-48.2(I)(B)(1) 

(ii)  Section 24-48.2(I)(B)(2) 

(iii)  Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(2) 

(iv)  Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(3) 

(v)  Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(4) 

(vi)  Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(7) 

(vii)  Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(8) 

(viii)  Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(9) 

(ix)  Section 24-48.5(a) 

(x)  Section 24-48.5(b) 

(xi)  Section 24-48.5(c) 

(xii)  Section 24-48.5(d) 

(xiii)  Section 24-48.5(e) 

(4)  The Department is hereby prohibited from processing any application for transfer of a permit or permit approval which is: 

(a)  Incomplete, or 

(b)  Not timely filed, or 

(c)  Not timely completed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 24-48.18 (1), (2) and (3). 

(5)  The Department is hereby prohibited from approving any application for transfer of a permit or permit approval which does not fulfill each and every requirement set forth in this section. 

(6)  No later than sixty (60) days after the approval by the Director, or the Director's designee, of the date of transfer of a class I, class II, class III, class IV, class V, or class VI permit or permit approval, the transferee shall provide to the Department the same evidence of fee simple ownership of the property by the transferee required pursuant to the provisions of Section 24-48.2(I)(B)(1)(c) or Section 24-48.2(II)(B)(1) of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida if such evidence of fee simple ownership of the property by the transferee has not already been provided to the Department. 

(7)  A mortgagee or lien-holder who obtains fee simple ownership and possession of real property through foreclosure or settlement of an action for foreclosure shall be eligible to be a transferee after acquisition of the fee simple ownership of the property, subject to the fulfillment of all the requirements in (3) above, provided a complete application for transfer is filed in writing with the Department not later than one hundred and twenty (120) days after the mortgagee or lien-holder obtains the fee simple ownership of the property and not later than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of the issued permit or granted permit approval. The signature of the prior property owner shall not be required on the application for transfer. 

(8)  All transfers of class I, class II, class III, class IV, class V, and class VI issued permits and granted permit approvals by the Board of County Commissioners which have been processed by the Department prior to the effective date of Ordinance No. 90-130 are hereby approved, confirmed, and made effective retroactive to the dates of such transfers. 

(9)  It shall be unlawful for any person to perform work, or authorize, allow, suffer or permit work to be performed requiring a Class I, Class II, Class III, Class IV, Class V, or Class VI permit after a fee simple transfer of a property unless the Department has approved an application for transfer of the issued permit authorizing the current fee simple property owner to perform the work. 

(10)  The Environmental Quality Control Board shall not have any jurisdiction pursuant to Section 24-11, Section 24-8 or Section 24-12 of the Code of Miami-Dade County with respect to any of the provisions of this section contained herein. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 12-58, § 5, 7-3-12)