Sec. 24-47. - Regulations for the operation of metal recycling facilities. 

The intent and purpose of this section is to safeguard the public health, safety and welfare by setting minimum requirements and guidelines for the operation of metal recycling facilities. 

(1)  Effective January 1, 1995, no person shall construct, utilize, operate, occupy or cause, allow, let, permit or suffer to be constructed, utilized, operated or occupied any metal recycling facility unless the person has obtained the prior written approval of the Director or the Director's designee. The Director or the Director's designee shall issue the Director's or the Director's designee's written approval only if: 

(a)  All shredder residue or prepared ferrous scrap which is placed on site shall be maintained on an impervious area, and 

(b)  All shredder residue is covered by a roof, or functional equivalent, sufficient to prevent stormwater from coming in contact with the shredder residue, or a stormwater management system approved by the Director or the Director's designee shall be in place to contain, properly treat, handle, and dispose of any stormwater coming in contact with the shredder residue, and 

(c)  No more than three thousand (3,000) tons of shredder residue shall be maintained on the property at any given time, and 

(d)  A performance bond in a form acceptable to the Director or the Director's designee is provided in an amount as determined by the Director or the Director's designee which shall not be less than the disposal cost of the largest quantity of shredder residue to be stored at the facility. 

(2)  Effective January 1, 1996, all prepared ferrous scrap shall be maintained in an area which either: 

(a)  Is covered by a roof, or functional equivalent, sufficient to prevent stormwater from coming in contact with the shredder residue or prepared ferrous scrap, or 

(b)  Contains a stormwater management system approved by the Director or the Director's designee to contain, properly treat, handle, and dispose of any stormwater coming in contact with the shredder residue or prepared ferrous scrap. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)