Sec. 24-15.3. - Standards for preparation of plans. 

(1)  Waste treatment works shall be designed in accordance with the sewerage guide promulgated by the Florida State Board of Health, or similar professional publication, recommended standards for sewage works and water pollution control federation manuals of practice numbered eight (8) and nine (9), as applicable to conditions prevailing within Miami-Dade County, and in accordance with good engineering practices. 

(2)  Outfalls shall be extended or carried to the channel of a stream or to deep water where outlet is submerged at all times. The extent and length of the outfall shall conform to the requirements of the Director or the Director's designee. No outfall shall be approved unless satisfactory evidence is presented to establish that solids or other objectionable pollutants will not be deposited on the shore, and that other forms of pollution will not be caused. 

(3)  FOG control devices shall be provided and installed in accordance with Section 24-42.6 of this chapter. 

(4)  Drainage or disposal wells shall not be used for disposal of treated or untreated wastes except as approved by the Director or the Director's designee. 

(5)  Air pollution facilities designed to control the emission of air contaminants to the atmosphere in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be designed in accordance with good engineering practice taking into consideration the meteorological conditions prevailing within this County. Such facilities shall comply with the requirements of this chapter and rules and regulations promulgated under and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. 

(6)  Approval of plans for potable water supply facilities shall be dependent, in part, upon: 

(a)  Owner's program for protective measures to protect and prevent development of health hazards to the water supply. 

(b)  Protective measures for water quality throughout all parts of the system by frequent surveys, proper operation by personnel certified by the State of Florida. 

(c)  Adequate system capacity to meet peak demands without development of low pressures or other health hazards. 

(d)  Records of laboratory examinations showing consistent compliance with the water quality requirements of this chapter. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 18-22, § 5, 2-21-18)