Sec. 24-48. - Permit required; expedited administrative authorizations; exceptions; work standards; compliance with work standards, suspension of permit. 

(1)  It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following without first having obtained a permit from the Department: 

(a)  To perform work or authorize, allow, suffer or permit work to be performed in County canal rights-of-way, reservations, or easements anywhere in Miami-Dade County; 

(b)  To trim, cut, or alter a mangrove tree anywhere in Miami-Dade County; 

(c)  To authorize, allow, suffer, or permit the trimming, cutting, or alteration of a mangrove tree anywhere in Miami-Dade County; 

(d)  To fill, dredge, or authorize, allow, suffer, or permit any type of work in, on, over, or upon tidal waters, submerged bay bottom lands, or wetlands anywhere in Miami-Dade County; 

(e)  To perform or authorize, allow, suffer, or permit any work which results in harmful obstruction or alteration of the natural flow of surface waters or substantial reduction in recharge of water to the Biscayne Aquifer; 

(f)  To authorize, cause, permit, allow, let, or suffer the dewatering of groundwater into any groundwater, surface water, or stormwater infrastructure anywhere in Miami-Dade County; 

(g)  To perform or authorize, allow, suffer, or permit the construction, installation, or alteration of stormwater infrastructure, to the extent required in this article as a Class II, Class III, or Class VI permit, anywhere in Miami-Dade County. 

(2)  All said work shall conform to minimum standards set forth in this code, and the "Environmental Resource Permit Applicant's Handbook, Volumes I and II" of the South Florida Water Management District, dated December 22, 2020 and May 22, 2016, respectively, as same may be amended from time to time. 

(3)  This section shall not apply to (i) work in treatment facilities or their ancillary facilities such as, but not limited to, cooling canals or polishing ponds; or (ii) the following projects, provided that unencapsulated polystyrene shall not be used or installed: 

(a)  Repair and/or replacement of the decking or handrails, on an existing dock or pier, limited to their original dimensions. 

(b)  Sealing of cracks and spall repair on a bridge, seawall or bulkhead cap or face. 

(c)  Repair or sealing of the pilasters of an existing seawall or bulkhead. 

(d)  Backfilling landward of existing seawalls or bulkheads. 

(e)  Placement of riprap, gunite-filled tube, or other approved material beneath an undercut seawall or bulkhead provided that material does not extend more than two (2) feet waterward of the seawall or bulkhead. 

(f)  Placement of sand-cement riprap bags at the toes of a seawall or bulkhead provided the bags do not extend more than two (2) feet or the width of two (2) standard sand-cement bags waterward of the seawall or bulkhead. 

(g)  The removal of old or unused or rotting piles or the removal of dilapidated docks, boatlifts, davits, or piers. 

(h)  The trimming of a mangrove tree(s) performed in accordance with the permit exemption provisions of Section 403.9326, Florida Statutes, provided that notification is given to the Department as required pursuant to Section 24-48.17(1) of the Code of Miami-Dade County. 

(i)  Roadway maintenance activities that are performed or authorized by the County public works department to correct safety deficiencies or are undertaken to maintain the continuity of existing use for an established road or road right-of-way. This provision shall not apply to any work involving expansion in the width or length of roads or work involving the filling of roads to higher elevations when said roads occur at elevations that are less than the elevations set forth by the County Flood Criteria Map. 

(j)  Maintenance of private roads approved by the Department or maintenance of roads and fill pads approved by the Department located upon a public or private utility right-of-way. This provision shall not apply to any work involving expansion in the width or length of roads or work involving the filling of roads to higher elevations when said roads occur at elevations that are less than the elevations set forth by the County Flood Criteria Map. 

(k)  Installation, repair, or replacement of marine hardware on docks and piers necessary to secure vessels including, but not limited to, cleats, mooring whips, chocks and mooring bits. 

(l)  Construction, installation, repair, or replacement of permanent uncovered benches and/or tables on docks and piers. 

(m)  Construction, installation, repair, or replacement of fenders, except fender piles, on docks and piers necessary for the protection of vessels. 

(n)  Construction, installation, repair, or replacement of storage boxes, not exceeding thirty-six (36) inches in height, on docks and piers. 

(o)  Construction, installation, repair, replacement of ladders on docks and piers to provide access to and from vessels and/or the water. 

(p)  The placement of concrete jackets or other forms of protection on existing dock, pier or mooring piles. 

(q)  The replacement of fender piles or mooring piles at the same exact location as they presently exist and provided that the following criteria are adhered to: 

(i)  The fender piles or mooring piles to be replaced do not protrude into the water more than twenty-five (25) percent of the width of the waterway. 

(ii)  The work will be done by a contractor holding an applicable certificate of competency. 

(iii)  The contractor shall contact the Director or the Director's designee a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours prior to performing the fender pile or mooring pile replacement work with information on the location and the number of fender or mooring piles to be replaced. 

(r)  The installation of stormwater infrastructure for any facility or development that does not use, generate, handle, dispose of, discharge, or store hazardous materials and does not otherwise require a class II permit, except that: 

(i)  This exemption shall not apply to an airport facility, a commercial vehicle storage facility, a resource recovery and management facility, a sewage treatment facility, or any property that has known soil or groundwater contamination; and 

(ii)  Plans for such facilities shall require written approval pursuant to Sections 24-15 and 24-42. 

(s)  Repair or replacement of uniform waterway markers or uniform waterway regulatory markers, which markers conform with Sections 327.40 and 327.41, Florida Statutes, respectively, as may be amended from time to time. 

(t)  Work in wetlands associated with the resumption of a lawfully permitted agricultural operation, during an agricultural fallowing period as defined in Section 24-5, as the site generally existed immediately prior to the agricultural fallowing period. 

(4)  The following activities shall not require a permit and shall be eligible to receive a written expedited administrative authorization, provided (i) the Department determines that the work meets one of the criteria set forth hereinbelow in subsections (a)—(g) and will not result in adverse environmental impacts, and (ii) unencapsulated polystyrene shall not be used or installed in connection with the work. The following items shall be required for departmental review: Site location and sketch of proposed work, full description of the work to be performed, all relevant information necessary to determine potential environmental impacts, as well as an administrative review fee. The Department will respond to the request with an approval, approval with conditions or denial within ten (10) business days from receipt of the required information. If the project is found to be ineligible for the expedited administrative authorization, the applicant may revise the request based on comments from the Department or the applicant may apply for a permit pursuant to Section 24-48.1. Expedited administrative authorizations are valid for a period of two (2) years unless otherwise noted. 

(a)  Scientific, water quality, or geotechnical sampling or testing in tidal waters or wetlands. 

(b)  Work in tidal waters and wetlands, not to exceed thirty (30) days, associated with motion picture, television, photographic or other media production. 

(c)  Treatment or removal of vegetation which is listed as a prohibited species as set forth in Section 24-49.9 of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, for restoration and enhancement activities. 

(d)  Work in wetlands performed to restrict access to property for the purpose of maintaining the property in its natural state and protecting the property from trespass, illegal dumping, or damage to wetlands. 

(e)  The placement of natural limerock boulder riprap waterward of an existing seawall, bulkhead or unconsolidated shoreline provided that the riprap is placed on a two (2) horizontal to one (1) vertical slope and the riprap does not extend more than ten (10) feet waterward of the mean high water line; provided, however, the Department conducts an inspection prior to the placement of the riprap and determines that said placement will not result in an adverse environmental impact to benthic communities. 

(f)  Repair and/or replacement of the tieback systems on an existing seawall or bulkhead, provided that the contractor submits structurally approved plans from the applicable building authority. 

(g)  Repair and/or replacement of the cap of an existing seawall or bulkhead, provided that the contractor submits structurally approved plans from the applicable building authority. 

(5)  All work to be performed under any County permits shall conform with the applicable portions of this article. 

(6)  If the Director, or the Director's designee, determines that the permittee and/or contractor is not performing the construction in accordance with the conditions of the permit or the approved plans upon which the permit was issued, the Director, or the Director's designee, may order suspension of the permit or the stopping of work until such time as the permittee and/or the contractor has complied with the permit, plans or standards. In such case, the permittee or the contractor or both shall take all necessary precautions to leave the work area in a safe and secure condition. In the event of any future widening, repairs, installation, construction, or reconstruction, by or for Miami-Dade County, of any road, bridge, canal, culvert, traffic signal, streetlight, water distribution system, sewage collection system, storm drainage system, or any other County facility within the public right-of-way in which the permittee or the contractor or both have constructed any utility which has not been conveyed to a francbised public utility, said permittee or contractor or both shall move or remove such utility as may be required for the public convenience as and whenever specified by the Director of the Public Works Department and at the expense of the permittee or the contractor or both. 

(7)  It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any of the conditions or special conditions of a written expedited administrative authorization a class I, class II, class III, class IV, class V, or class VI permit issued by the Director, or the Director's designee. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08; Ord. No. 12-58, § 5, 7-3-12; Ord. No. 13-27, § 2, 4-2-13; Ord. No. 18-10, § 2, 2-6-18; Ord. No. 21-42, §§ 7, 9, 6-2-21; Ord. No. 24-92, § 5, 9-4-24)