Sec. 24-50.5. - Environmentally Endangered Lands Trust Funds. 

(1)  Creation of the Environmentally Endangered Lands Acquisition Trust Fund. 

(a)  There is hereby created the Environmentally Endangered Lands Acquisition Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund) for use in acquiring environmentally-endangered lands in Miami-Dade County. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund and to receive and disburse monies in accordance with the provisions of this section. 

(b)  The EEL Acquisition Trust Fund shall receive monies from the following sources: 

(i)  All revenues collected by the Miami-Dade County Tax Collector pursuant to the extraordinary millage of three-quarters of one mil of ad valorem tax levied in 1990 and 1991, as approved by referendum on May 8, 1990, except for those revenues dedicated to the Environmentally Endangered Lands Management Trust Fund provided for herein by Section 24-50.5(b)(ii). 

(ii)  All monies accepted by Miami-Dade County in the form of federal, State, or other governmental grants, allocations, or appropriations, as well as foundation or private grants and donations for acquisition of environmentally-endangered lands as provided for by this section. 

(iii)  Such additional allocations as may be made by the Board of County Commissioners from time to time for the purposes set forth herein. 

(iv)  All interest generated from the sources identified in Section 24-50.5(1)(b)(i), (ii), and (iii) hereinabove, except where monies received have been otherwise designated or restricted. 

(c)  The EEL Acquisition Trust Fund shall be maintained in trust by the Board of County Commissioners solely for the purposes set forth herein, in a separate and segregated fund of the County which will not commingle with other County funds until disbursed for an authorized purpose pursuant to Section 24-50.5(1)(d). 

(d)  Disbursements from the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund shall be made only for the following purposes: 

(i)  Acquisition of properties which have been approved for purchase by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of Sections 24-50.7 through 24-50.11. 

(ii)  All costs associated with each acquisition including, but not limited to, appraisals, surveys, title search work, real property taxes, documentary stamps and surtax fees, and other transaction costs. 

(iii)  Costs of administering the EEL Program, which will be funded from the interest proceeds of the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund until such time as the fund is closed. 

(iv)  Supplementation of the Environmentally Endangered Lands Management Trust Fund, but only by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. 

(e)  Where any property acquired with EEL Acquisition Trust Fund monies is leased or sold by the County, the proceeds from said lease or sale shall, as determined by the Board of County Commissioners, be committed either to the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund or to the EEL Management Trust Fund for the purposes provided for herein. Such proceeds shall neither be committed to any other fund, nor be used for any other purpose. 

(2)  Creation of the Environmentally Endangered Lands Management Trust Fund. 

(a)  There is hereby created the Environmentally Endangered Lands Management Trust Fund (hereinafter referred to as the EEL Management Trust Fund) for the preservation, enhancement, restoration, conservation and maintenance of environmentally-endangered lands which either have been purchased with monies from the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund (established pursuant to Section 24-50.5(1), or have otherwise been approved for management pursuant to Section 24-50.7(2). The Finance Director is hereby authorized to establish the EEL Management Trust Fund and to receive and disburse monies in accordance with the provisions of this section. 

(b)  The EEL Management Trust Fund shall receive monies from the following sources: 

(i)  A principal in the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) from those revenues collected by the Miami-Dade County Tax Collector pursuant to the extraordinary millage of three-quarters of one mil of ad valorem tax levied in 1990 and 1991, as approved by referendum on May 8, 1990. The principal may be increased as a result of a specific grant, donation, allocation or appropriation therefor. 

(ii)  All monies accepted by Miami-Dade County in the form of federal, State, or other governmental grants, allocations, or appropriations, as well as foundation or private grants and donations, for management of lands acquired with the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund or otherwise approved for management pursuant to Section 24-50.7(2). Unless otherwise stated at the time of acceptance, all grant and donation monies received and the interest therefrom shall not be part of the principal and shall be available for disbursement in accordance with Section 24-50.5(2)(d). 

(iii)  Such additional allocations as may be made by the Board of County Commissioners from time to time, including allocations from existing trust funds or mitigation funds, or special allocations from the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund as provided for in Section 24-50.5(1)(d)(i). Unless otherwise stated at the time of the allocation, all allocations received shall be available for disbursement in accordance with Section 24-50.5(2)(d). 

(iv)  All interest generated from the sources identified in Sections 24-50.5(2)(b)(i), (ii), and (iii) hereinabove, except where monies received have been otherwise designated or restricted. 

(c)  The EEL Management Trust Fund shall be kept and maintained in trust by the Board of County Commissioners solely for the purposes set forth herein, in a separate and segregated fund of the County which will not commingle with other County funds until disbursed for an authorized purpose pursuant to this section. 

(d)  Disbursements from the EEL Management Trust Fund shall be made by the County Manager only in accordance with this Section 24-50.5(2)(d). 

(i)  No disbursements shall be made from the principal established under Section 24-50.5(2)(b)(i) except by ordinance amending this subsection. 

(ii)  Disbursements shall be made only from those monies defined in Section 24-50.5(2)(b)(ii), (iii), and (iv) hereinabove. 

(iii)  Disbursements shall be made only for the preservation, enhancement, restoration, conservation or maintenance of those environmentally-endangered lands which have been acquired with monies from the EEL Acquisition Trust Fund or which have been approved for management pursuant to Section 24-50.7(2). Disbursements shall be made in accordance with (a) project management plan(s) which has/have been approved pursuant to Section 24-50.12. 

(Ord. No. 04-214, §§ 1, 5, 12-2-04; Ord. No. 08-55, § 2, 5-6-08)